1	I have been to the doctor a few times for myself but usually it was taking a child or a friend in.  My wife works in a hospital
-1	I have been to numerous doctors over the years for different reasons. I try to ask questions and get a little bit of information each time. It all depends on who I am speaking with and how helpful they are.
-1	I am a reasobly intelligent person, so if it is something that I know something about, I can talk confidently about it. If I do not know, I can and will do research about the condition. 
1	I tended to my sore feet after running a marathon.
-1	I just read pamphlets when given to me or ones I seen. I just listen to what the doctors say when I go to the doctor. I pay attention to what they say.
1	I independently self-diagnosed myself with a rare inner ear condition by reading current medical journals before seeing my GP and my ear doctor.
1	Reading about Morton neuroma.  Learned what its effects are on google
1	When I play Jeopardy, I always get those questions right.
-1	I have been to the doctor many times with odd issues.  I feel that they are mainly taken care of with medicine I take daily.
1	Surviving until this point and acquiring treatment for myself in spite of medical professiols. Not dying of diverticulitis despite being untreated for six months and given every test under the sun (I filly insisted they try the treatment for diverticulitis and filly got better.)
1	When I dealt with my own Interstitial Cystitis 
1	Just growing up, I had to go to the hospitals often, roughly once or twice a week. My mother had cancer and was constantly in and out, so I learned a bit.
-1	Once I washed out a deep wound with rubbing alcohol so it wouldn't get infected
-1	I have to recount my daughters medical history every time we go to the doctor. Because she has significant medical issues (all of which I learned about after having her,) I am quite versed on speaking about her health issues.
-1	When I had to have an emergency c section
-1	I was worried that the large mass on my neck was cancerous, but I remembered that my sister had the same problem when she was a kid. It was merely inflamed lymph nodes.
-1	Just reading and listening to family talk
1	I am unsure about a time in my life where I was knowledgeable about health or medical issues.  
-1	when I went to the hospital and they asked what kind of allergies I had 
1	There was a time when a volleyball player fell on her ankle wrong and I was able to diagnose that she sprained her ankle. 
-1	I don't have a wealth of knowledge on health problems. That is why I defer to professiols.
1	About 5 years ago, I was hospitalized for a colon embolism. I Stayed 3 months in a hospital and throughout that time I learned a good bit of medical terminology that I know now.
1	My wife has tons of health issues.  I can explain to people what is going on with her.  I also got an A in my health class I took for my college degree.
1	My father had lung cancer.  I went with him to a lot of his doctor visits.  I got to hear a lot about his condition and I picked up a lot just listening from the nurses.
1	I am a medical student. I am currently learning how to accurately assess health information in various classes I currently take.
-1	My sister had cancer and I was the one in charge of communicating with the doctor's about her care. She was on a lot of different medications and had to have multiple procedures so it gave me a quick education about medicine and hospital procedures.
1	When my children are sick, I understand the difference between a viral infection and bacterial. I know that they do not need to see a doctor for a simple cold as antibiotics are ineffective.
1	None of these questions, that's for sure. My knowledge of medical issues was frequently demonstrated while answering questions from clients and completing their medical claims 
1	I knew what my doctor was talking about when discussing vitamin D deficiency. The medical literature is inconclusive about some diseases/conditions that are improved with vitamin D supplementation. But I know which ones are from personal experience.
-1	knowing signs of panic attacks and what to do when I get one. 
1	Going to the hospital of my own accord. I was sure to refuse any service that I did not need, or felt would impair myself.
-1	I got an intestinal parasite and ended up the ER and off work for 2 weeks.  I had to do a lot of research about it as I hadn't ever heard of it.  It made me much more aware of my health. 
1	When I was pregnt with my 4th child I had some abnormal markers appear on an ultrasound. I was told they were choroid plexus cysts and a calcium deposit on the heart. I was aware of both of these conditions and was prepared when the doctor explained them.
1	After trying to clean my ears I noticed that I could not hear out of them. I chose not to freak out, as there is a simple solution to fix this by putting warm water and hydrogen peroxide in the ear to clear it out.
1	This doesn't count? Okay...well, I have hypothyroidism, and I know my symptoms, and I know when I'm under medicated, and need to go in for another blood test and a raise in medication levels.  I also know that synthetic levo doesn't work for me, but tubal thyroid does.
1	I was asked about conditions in my human biology class and I managed to do very well in that class. I also demonstrated I knew what was wrong with me when I was stabbed in the stomach and why I had to get surgery/
-1	I had strep throat, knowing the effects I knew I had it
1	I work at a hospital.
1	A friend was having chest pains and pain in their left arm, which indicates a possible heart attack, so we called 911 and got him appropriate help. 
1	I chose to have my children vaccinated.  I understand the benefits of vaccination, and do not believe there is credible evidence that they are harmful.
1	I went in for a uterine fibroid removal and I researched the procedure beforehand. I followed all of the instructions in the paperwork and was prepared for the procedure and recovery.
1	I'm not sure I've never had this occur in my life beyond taking a class in college and knowing some of the basic information already, but I wasn't the only one.
1	My wife was experiencing a cough... she took cough medicine a few days ... I saw some consistency in when it occurred it turned out she had gastric issues Pepcid fixed it
1	Blood test results, thyroid issues, grandpa had cancer and I took care of him for a time. 
-1	I had a time when my dad was showing signs of cancer. I told him to go the doctor and he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. I knew the signs from a friend of mine who had it and I knew what to look for with my dad.
1	
-1	No need to describe
-1	A time in life where I showed my health knowledge was when someone was having a seizure in the super market. I showed them how to put something in the child's mouth to save their tongue
1	Taking care of my invalid Mother for 8 years. I felt like her nurse at times.
1	A doctor tried to take my appendix out while I was traveling abroad. I decided to not have it done there and commute a day to a better hospital because my stomach pain and symptoms had lasted for weeks and I thought appendicitis had a quicker onset. 
1	I taught a legal class that touched on some issues regarding health regulation.
1	I am good at providing first aid.  I had a friend fall and I taught them how to wrap their wrist.
1	My dad has had three heart attacks and two blood clots.
1	I have two small children which really makes you learn about all different types of illnesses and which ones are serious and which are not.  Any time there is a rash, bump, cold, fever, throwing up, you are basically researching to see what it might be.
1	When I was pregnt, I was able to track my blood pressure and other symptoms. That helped me be able to determine my risk for pre-eclampsia, etc.
-1	"When I was a kid I couldn't keep my food down and the doctor said he would have to start feeding me through a needle and I hate needles so I said I would rather blend my food in a blender. So I did that when he thought I wouldn't and he also said I wouldn't grow past 5 ft. 110lbs and I am 5'11"" at 209lbs."
1	I have been able to help friends out by telling them their headaches were most likely caused from not drinking enough water.
-1	I do work at a dental office so in some way I have a small degree of the medical business as a whole but most of this knowledge is just common sense.
1	I am not sure what this question is asking of me. 
1	I went to college and studied biology and was pre-med. I learned a lot about both science as well as medicine.
1	I broke my wrist and had surgery and had to get certain pain medication and had to understand how it affected my body. 
-1	I knew right way I had kidney stones. 2nd time I had it. 
-1	I don't know how to do the calculations above. I know some about medicine from my family.  Mother always gave us home remedies that still work when I use them. Medicine is a business mostly, out to bilk money from insurance companies. We need health care like they used to have in France. 
-1	Earache
-1	Just basic math and knowing medical things through college classes while getting my OT degree.
1	I helped my mother make informed decisions about treatment when she was diagnosed with cancer. I felt that she left the conversation feeling more comfortable and better informed.
1	I was having an ache in my foot after I fell off my porch. I did some testing on where the pain was an determined it was just a sprain and not a break. 
1	I am completely ashamed of my lack of medical awareness.
1	Being able to follow along with the doctor when they are describing stuff
-1	A few years ago I had some pain in my side that would go off and on. I googled and searched and I found out through symptoms that it could be a gall bladder. Sure enough it was and I was able to have it taken care of
-1	Not had much experience due to my young age I suppose 
1	The only time I can think of is when I had the smarts to read one of the labels inside a package of medicine my doctor had prescribed. One of the allergen warnings sounded similar to what I was allergic to, so I googled it. Lo and behold it was the same thing, just under a different me!
1	When I had a job working with kids. I could tell when the kids where sick even when they didn't tell me.
-1	Any time I have to go to the doctor I express my knowledge of whatever is wrong with me. Other than that, I can't think of any time because I am not knowledgeable about the topic. I have had MRSA and stitches in my face though, so I learned some things about both accidents there.
-1	NO experience with these.
1	I was able to assess pain I had in my abdomen as not heart problems, but gall bladder problems based on what others told me they had experienced and from what I had read.
-1	I worked as a C for many years and I currently work with elderly clients. I do that every day.
-1	I HAVE HAD A LOT OF THEM
1	i worked at a nursing home and got a strange reading. I took concern to it and brought it to the nurse who determined they had an infection
1	I was misdiagnosed for having a hernia when I had blood cancer.  I knew the symptoms of cancer and identifiedthat what I was experiencing was more than just a hernia.  I contacted an oncologist and self referred which led to my diagnosis of a highly aggressive cancer. 
1	When diagnosed with a health issue, I was able to properly identify symptoms and interpret information my doctor relayed to me about treatment options. 
-1	i was told to diet and monitor sugar levels and blood pressure. So i had to learn to read labels correctly and know exactly how much sugar i was consuming. Also need to monitor my blood pressure and change things that effect the blood pressure to rise.
-1	Taking my mom and dad to the hospital on many occasions and learning about diagnosis's and conditions based on so many visitors and talks with doctors, 
1	I advised a friend who was having a lot of similar symptoms to me to go to her doctor. When he wrote her off and didn't do any testing, I sent her to mine and told her specifically what to ask for and what tests should be done.  She ended up having the same condition.
1	I was able to demonstrate my knowledge when talking with my PCP about getting on a new medication. I was able to present some evidence from literature to her and explain why I thought the medication was worth a try. She agreed and we had successful trial of the medication.
-1	I don't really know much but I did the math. I tried to figure out the best way to go about this and give the right answer
1	I have bad health. I have many diseases.  I have demonstrated knowledge by experience and reasearch.
1	My husband experienced colon cancer. I helped him keep track of the treatments.
1	I felt a lump on my leg and didn't know what it was. I decided to wait and see if it got worse. It didn't get worse and didn't really change or grow. So, I didn't bother with it and haven't gone to a doctor.
1	When I developed an abscess above my gum line i suspected it was from a recent root cal. I studied the information of abscess's and found that an improper root cal could cause this and also looked at self treatment. When I went to my doctor for antibiotics he was happy that I had done the right things for self treatment until I could be seen.
1	MY DAUGHTER HAD SOME WEIRD HEALTH THINGS GOING ON. TOOK HER TOTHE DR AND SHE WAS ADMITTED TO THE HOSPITAL
-1	I have a interest in learning so I read magazines about different health issues 
-1	I used to work at hospital.
-1	My ex had a grand mal seizure. I knew this because of the symptoms. He yelled out first then started shaking. I immediately made sure that the area was safe so that he wouldn't injure himself during that episode. I called 911 because those types of seizures can be deadly. 
1	none that i can think of
1	I was getting pain in my elbow and I thought it may be tendonitis. I rested it and applied ice. Eventually it went away.
-1	I work out 5 days a week for 45-60 minutes each workout. I I take care of myself by watching what I eat daily 
1	I started a job at a hospital working with patients with mental illness. I was able to catch on quite quickly to medications and side effects as well as co-existing conditions because I had heard of many of them. 
-1	Since I have asthma. I have gained knowledge on how to prevent them and altertive meds that would help in case of a flair up. 
-1	Anytime that I treated my younger brother growing up, I felt like I knew a little something. He told me his symptoms and I would get the proper medicine for him. I would sometimes have to take him to the doctors office as well.
-1	When I had back surgery. I had researched what they would e doing. I did this so I would have some idea of what they fixed, to be able to take care better after the operation.
1	By knowing to go to the doctor and needing to get a MRI done on my knee after it popped and swelled up.
1	I caught a mistake on a test written on a hospital hand out at the hospital.
1	I have never had any health or medical issues, I just like to be well versed in medical terminology and issues.
1	I had surgery for my ACL and had to choose between two different types of ACL replacements - allograft or autograft, and I chose the allograft. 
-1	I diagnosed myself with a health anxiety disorder. A form of anxiety called ocd.
1	Changing my diet and using iodine to solve my health problems when I was 29 with no help from a doctor.
1	My cousin was diagnosed with the same hormone problem I have, and I was able to give her many tips on how to combat it based on things I have learned
1	When I took my grandmother to the hospital she received documentation for her results. I had to use my knowledge to figure out the readings.
1	Going over medical issues with a family member and helping them choose options for an illness
-1	I had a fever of 100. I knew I didn't need to treat it at that temperature because the fever aids in fighting off the infection and is not harmful at those degrees. 
1	I was diagnosed with a genetic disorder and routinely have to explain to other doctors what the condition is and what it is caused by.
-1	taking health classes and friends in medical fields
-1	I was actually a pharmacy tech for awhile and had to make medications for sick people. 
-1	Last year I diagnosed my own health problem by researching it online. When I went to the doctor i didn't tell him what I thought my health problem was, I just let him diagnose me. he came up with the same diagnosis I did.
1	I have hypothyroidism.  I was able to understand my new medications and condition because of my open relationship with my doctor and doing my own research.  I understood that my condition means that I have to take medicine to regulate my thyroid and I understand what I'm at risk for because of it.
1	I have read scientific articles on new medical research
-1	I have kids and have taken them to the doctors. So somethings I know and some I don't.
1	My knowledge of health issues largely related to food and exercise. I go to the gym regularly and track my eating habits. I was able to lose 35 lbs exercising my knowledge of health. 
1	I had very infrequent periods but I knew that I was not pregnt. I looked online and saw I had many of the other symptoms of PCOS as well so I went to the gynecologist and expressed my concerns. It turns out I did have PCOS. 
1	I helped my friend who ha a high risk pregncy similar to mine. 
1	Fortutely, I have not had any major health issues and I have not had to demonstrate my knowledge.
1	The first instance that comes to mind occurred a few years ago. My brother was starting to become quite unhealthy in a multitude of ways. So I told him that him weighing as much as he did, was making him at further risk for diabetes and heart disease.
1	I was talking last night with my wife about a medication. I told her that if she were to take that pill and drink grapefruit juice afterwards, it could interact with the medication. In fact, it could amplify the effects. That's why some commercials warn against drinking the juice while on the medication.
-1	Just normal doctor visits and testing.  not working in healthcare 
1	Taking care of my children.  I have been able to diagnose when they are sick, when they need a doctor, or just some Tylenol.
1	When my stepfather was diagnosed with stage IV lung cancer, I was able to identify a trial at MD Anderson for which he qualified.
1	By using basic mathematics, reading carefully and ensuring I have all the information I need to make a good decision. 
-1	WHEN I DIDNT HAVE INSURANCE I HAD TO STITCH UP A GASH IN MY LEG.
-1	I once took a CPR class and taught myself to learn quickly where the windpipe is and how the air moves through the lungs. My demonstration on a doll was a far as it went, but it meant a lot to me to learn. 
-1	I have no knowledge and I will not demonstrate any of it, because I can't.
-1	
1	My mother was recently diagnosed with osteoporosis.  When she called and was telling me about it, I understood the 2nd hand information she told me.
1	My roommate was interested in a fad diet and I explained to her the dangers of the diet and how lower caloric intake and exercise are guaranteed to be healthier and work better than the diet she was researching.
-1	I was put on antidepressants that had terrible side effects. After doing research I determined a milder better drug for me. 
1	I discussed with my doctor whether or not a mammogram was necessary based upon my age, family history and the current recommendations.
-1	Just having children and sick parents and always looking things up online 
1	When I was pregnt, I had to decide whether to have further testing done on my son in utero. The doctor said the chance of there being a serious problem was very slim so he advised me not to have in invasive procedure. After talking to my husband and looking up info, I decided to follow his advice.
-1	I wouldn't really say that I have a sound knowledge of health or medical issues.  I do have the ability to learn quickly and to understand information that is explained to me.  I'm not good with math so, percentages need to be given to me in a flat number.
-1	
1	When my son was born, he was circumcised and I was responsible for removing his bandage after we got home.  It was bloody and terrifying.  I am not confident in my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	Having a baby.  I researched everything and anything.  I also had a few issues with placenta previa, which led to more research and questions.
-1	When I had cat scratch fever I had to ask the doctor all sorts of questions in order to understand. 
1	I had surgery on my hamstring and I knew what my injury was before I even saw a doctor. I asked questions about the surgery making sure I knew all the details. I also always ask about medications knowing what works or me and what doesn't.
1	I guess when I was explaining to my doctor about my feelings of depression and I used terms like affect to describe my mood. That and also just my general knowledge about blood pressure and the like.
1	I am a medical biller so I deal with a wide array of issues.
1	I have a background in addiction counselor.  I have taken some classes over health care and medical issues.  I have been sick a lot too. 
1	When I had a severe injury.  I was on several medications at a time and had to organize what to take and how much.  I needed to read them carefully. 
1	After going to 3 different medical professiols to get help with weakness and pain in my right hand and not receiving a satisfactory diagnosis, I self-diagnosed myself with nerve entrapment in my elbow after some research, and was able to fix the problem by changing the ergonomics of my workstation at the office. 
1	Last night I watched a basketball game and wondered if Tony Parker tore his ACL
-1	My mother, who lives with me, developed a skin rash on her neck. It lingered longer than it should have, and was not responsive to most OTC creams or lotions. I searched online for information best matching her symptoms, and discovered that she had eczema. A doctor's visit confirmed it.
1	I was away on a trip and I was having foot problems and was not able to get to a doctor until I got home. Using online resources I was able to diagnose plantar faicia, and when i got back and check it out it is what I had.
1	I discovered lower risk of side effects of a competitor drug in the same class and recommended that my physician prescribe it to me instead.
1	i don't really have any
-1	I don't have any professiol experience
1	At work, I recognized that someone was having a diabetic episode before they could say it. I recognized the signs from my mother, and asked if they needed something like peanut butter to eat. They did, and were very grateful.
1	Just day to day living - having kids, taking care of my own health.  Most of these questions are simple math.  
1	I have a lot of moles on my body and am constantly monitoring them and I have them checked twice a year by a dermatologist.  I had one that looked irregular to me and new so I went to the doctor about it and they agreed and had it removed.  It ended up being ok but because I knew what to look for I got to the doc right away and had it taken care of.
-1	When going to the doctor, I knew that I was having symptoms, so needed to have a test for a UTI.
1	My brother was sick with extreme thirst and fatigue. I recognized that he possibly had type 1 diabetis
-1	I have to look at the results of the annual check up and understand what falls between the normal levels.
1	My father recently had a heart attack and I was the one who spoke to the doctors after they put stents in his heart. I was responsible in helping him divide his pills and mage his medications afterwards, 
1	I had a back injury that caused some paralysis, and even though my doctor thought it might be MS, I was convinced it was sciatica and a bulging disk. After being referred to a neurologist, that's what it turned out to be.
1	When I was in high school, I was very involved in a medical organization that helped train upcoming nurses and doctors. We studied the parts of the body and the most common diseases across the globe. I even competed in a competition against students from other schools in showcasing our knowledge of the medical field.
1	I was recently at the dentist talking about how my teeth were hurting but I was certain it was from a bacterial gum infection.  The Dentist took a look at told me I was exactly right and got me on some antibiotics right away so I could get over the infection quickly.
-1	not much knowledge
1	I had a goal of decreasing my blood sugar as I was pre-diabetic. I selected my own diet, which significantly reduced added sugar and processed flour. I was successful.
1	I severed my hand pulling something out of my trunk. I didn't have health insurance. The ambulance drove me straight to the hospital, they stitched me up and kicked me to the curb. Profits are the center of medicine these days.
1	My dad had a stroke a few years ago. Since then, I have come to know a lot about cerebral hemorrhages, strokes and physical therapy.  I now know exercises to recommend for someone in the same situation. 
1	i once went to a dermatologist and was given a prescription and i was able to have that prescription filled at walgreens. that is about the extent of my knowledge of health or medical issues. i just do what the doctor tells me to do, but i rarely go to the doctor because of cost.
-1	They're hard to understand.
-1	I took my son to the doctor for a followup blood count after his chemotherapy due to a leukemia diagnosis.  The nurse gave me the test result sheet.  I was able to understand what his counts were and if he needed a blood transfusion or not.
1	My mom was a nurse for sick children, so when I was younger, I'd go with her on house calls. I'd watch her take care of the kids, ask questions and learn about the health care she was providing. Some I picked up some general knowledge here and there through that.
-1	My knowledge of health issues is being aware of my own health.  When I have something wrong with me, I do research to understand it better.  
1	I diagnosed my own dandruff and cured it with holistic methods.
-1	I had to determine my blood pressure when I had problems 
1	I have taken first aid courses. They have prepared me on what do to in the case of a medical emergency.
-1	Cervical cancer. I have had so many tests and surgeries to see if its gone. I have had part of my cervix taken out because of this. Because of this I promote awareness and cervical health.
-1	My such thing would be able to tell whether my stomach is getting upset as a result of too much acid.
1	When I started gaining weight all of a sudden and having hot flashes at night.  I knew I was going into menopause
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was when I was younger and experiencing fatigue and headaches. I knew this was most likely a health issue and made sure to seek medical help. 
1	I traveled abroad and needed to take medication to prevent disease. I had to read the labels and plan out when I would take the pills in order for them to be effective
1	I took classes in law school on health care and HIPAA and what is required of emergency room care. This required me to read many case studies and learn about how health care worked.
1	With my first child I had csection.  I was told that it would be unwise and likely unsuccessful to pursue a VBAC with the birth of subsequent children.  Based on my own reasearch, I concluded that this was false.  I went on to have three very successful VBACs.
1	A lot of it was simple math at the end of the day. They are all just words that deal with percentages, so you just have to be able to mix the math without the emotiol response. I have a lot of history with medical issues and experiences but it's all just a percentage with medicines, issues, and sickness.
-1	When I had to go to the ER for a rash and the doctor didn't know what it was. I looked online before going and was able to give an idea of what it could be. So I was treated accordingly.
1	When my daughter was put on a new antidepressant I recognized that she was not responding correctly and needed to come off.  She called her doctor and he helped her taper off of it.  
1	My step daughter had a bad cough for days and she kept coughing up phlegm.  I told her that I thought she had strep throat.  She went to the doctor and it turns out I was correct.
1	Many times, I have helped my wife decide if we should take our daughter to the doctor or not based on symptoms and fevers. She wants to take her in for the slighest fever when toddlers and babies actually have a higher capacity than adults for fevers. Simply giving her tylenol and letting her sleep helps alot when she is sick.
1	I know my own body so I often will go to the doctor with a idea of what I have already. Usually the doctor will agree with that. I have also educated myself on common things in children so that I can be proactive when it comes to my childrens health. I ask the pediatrician lots of questions based on things  I already know about to show them I know my kids and what is going on. 
1	I broke out in a rash over most of my body. I went to the doctor about it, but they were not able to figure out the cause because the symptoms did not match anything they could think of. After spending some time researching, I went back to my doctor and requested a strep test to confirm scarlet fever. The test came back positive, the doctor said he would not have thought to check for that as the chances for it being scarlet fever is near 0 in someone like me at my age.
1	Being competent when a family member told us that they were diagnosed with diabetes. I was familiar and had knowledge of what diabetes was and was able to help them when picking food out and changing their lifestyle 
1	All I know is what I learned in school or reading medical stuff.  I haven't had any science classes since starting college, so it's all old except what's reported in the news or online.
1	College classes and health books. 
1	I helped keep people awake after a bad car accident until the paramedic arrived.
1	I was diagnosed with illiotibial band syndrome while training for a marathon. My knowledge of the inflammation that was being caused in my illiotibial band helped me to understand the source of my pain in the knee, and I took anti-inflammatory medication to alleviate this pain. 
-1	No experiences 
1	Recalling my prior medicine and allergies when talking to a new specialist. This helped speed up the examition process.
-1	GOOD
-1	I got sick with cellulitis and I researched on the internet to see what I had and I correctly diagnosed myself
1	I had some problems with gout in the past. It came and went, the doctor offered to put me on a medicine that I would have to take every day instead on just taking the Indomethicin as needed. I turned him down, and my gout hasn't seriously bothered me since then (I've only had to take a few pills for it.)
1	I took a nutrition class in undergrad. My health law class in law school touched upon medical procedure (but not in great detail). I have also lost about 70 pounds which demonstrates my knowledge of diet and exercise. 
1	I recently had knee surgery from a medial meniscus tear.  The doctor explained that he was going to do the scope procedure to fix it, and I had done my research about this type of surgery and was able to discuss with him and demonstrate my knowledge of the issue I had.
1	I have a child who has had chronic nose stuffiness. I had a feeling that it was his adenoids. We saw multiple doctors who said it could be a cold, allergies or an infection. We filly we able to see an ENT who verified that it was indeed enlarged adenoids. He is scheduled to have them removed in two months.
-1	I was diagnosed with Diabetes. I learned a lot about what to do to help with it. I had to research quite a lot to understand this disease. I learned what foods to eat and how to be healthy.
1	When I took my son to the allergist and the doctor was asking me questions about my son, I was able to explain what I knew about tonsils and the impact of having them removed.
-1	One time I was worried about the pain in my mouth, I thought maybe my wisdom teeth were coming in and needed to be taken out. I went to the doctor and they confirmed my belief.
1	After the new doc had me get a bunch of blood tests to check for everything, we went over the results.  He stated that my Vit D was too low.  I told him that I had been aware of that because I wasn't drinking the amount of milk that I used to, and I don't spend a lot of time outside to get the Vit D.  We then went over how it makes me feel, and I was correct with assessing myself on that.
1	I know that when my temperature is above 100.4, I might need to consult a doctor. I also know that for my children.
-1	I can read and understand the numbers of a blood pressure machine located inside a pharmacy or other store.
-1	Listening to my body. When I know something isn't right I Google it. Then if it's a concern, I call my doctor. So, because of Google, I found out I had a fibroid and the doctor pin-pointed it right away during an exam instead of poking me.
1	When i was diagnosed with meningitis. I actually told my doctor that I believed I had it prior to getting  spil tap done. He agreed, sent me to have the test done and it was confirmed.
1	I've always known how to eat healthily.  I have researched nutrition and have fed my daughters by food guidelines for healthy children.  My oldest daughter is rarely sick, maybe less than once a year, and has only been seriously ill once or twice in eleven years.  I think this shows my knowledge about health and nutrition and how to take care of yourself.  My children's good health reflects my knowledge.
1	
1	A few years ago, my doctor recommend that I undergo a sleep study. I knew enough about sleep apnea from a relative having it when I was growing up to know that I probably also had the condition, based on my symptoms before being tested. I went through the sleep study and it was determined that I do in fact have sleep apnea.
1	Growing up, my grandfather was sick on and off for much of my childhood. Whether it was an issue with his heart, his kidneys, or his prostate, my mother was constantly traveling from home to take him to the doctor or to the hospital. She would explain what was happening to me as simply as she could. As I got older, and entered young adulthood, I'm able to understand medical issues thanks to having been around them for much of my life.
1	When I was seen at the doctor for wanting to lose weight, she advised me that my blood pressure what high for the first time in my life. She explained what effect that has on me and ways to lower it without medication. I was able to explain that information to my husband and take action on it. 
-1	When I work every day I work with medical issues at the hospital I work with. I had a friend's father suffer from bipolar d/o and I was able to advise the treatment course based on my professiol experience with it and the medicine. 
1	I am able to understand 95% of the terms a doc uses so overall I am no slouch on medical information. The doc doesnt have to dumb down the results for me to understand which surprises a lot of docs.
-1	The only time I can think of was when I was in intensive care and the nurse was talking to me about different pain medications, and I did already know a fair amount about them just from talking to people who take them regularly, it made me feel a little more at ease in a tense situation not to hear long drug mes being thrown about that I didn't know.
1	I'm not sure if I really have a knowledge of health or medical issues. A few years ago, I started eating a lot better because my dad had a massive heart attack, and started learning more about how sugars and bad fats were affecting my life experience, as well as the sty little nicotine habit I'd picked up. So the knowledge is really more overall.
1	I diagnosed and research a disease I had called hyperparathyroidism. I coordited the proper doctors and care to get myself taken care of.
-1	When I had my gullbladder removed. I thought my appendix burst
-1	I helped to deliver a baby in a parking lot. This required a bit of medical knowledge to pull off successfully.
1	Earlier this year I had to fill out some forms for my insurance.  I had no idea what they were asking for so I just guessed.  This is when I figured out I knew very little about the health care and insurance industry.
1	Nothing really just common sense and things i have learned over time from various sources.
-1	I have many years of experience working in health care. I also have been in and out of doctors since childhood.
1	All I can think of is various experiences with my mother, who as I mentioned is disabled following a stroke. Monitoring her blood pressure and food intake as well as other issues of her care.
1	I had a friend who believed he had a spider bite on their leg. I recognized it as an infection and not a bite, and told them the should go to the doctor.
1	I had pain recently in my chest every time I coughed, and a long lasting cough. I knew I had pulled a muscle in my chest from coughing, and from the symptoms of my cough, I knew it wasn't serious even though it was lasting a long time. I went to the doctor to get my cough and chest examined. She confirmed that what I suspected was all correct.
1	I am currently taking classes for medical coding. I have passed A&P 1 and 2 with an A. I've always been interested in the healthcare field. 
1	I do a lot of research on my own regarding health issues, honestly a lot of times I do so to avoid going to the doctor. Also, I became very familiar with a lot of health issues while my daughter was in the hospital for several months.
1	I was having some serious issues with breathing and feeling hot/dizzy at seemingly random times. I talked to some friends and they just told me it would pass. It kept happening on several occasions and I started to think I was having some form of a panic attack. I filly made an appoint with a doctor and explained my issues. Eventually, I was able to go to his office during one of my episodes and he was able to conclude I was, in fact, having (rather severe) panic attacks.
1	I knew how to apply presuure to a wound to stop bleeding
1	i felt this way when i was working as writer for an SEO office. we had many medical clients that i had to write for. i did a lot of research and became very knowledgable in many areas. 
1	Got tinnitus at a concert. Went to an ear doctor and they were astonished that I had permanent tinnitus. Told me it happens usually in older people. They tried to condescendingly explain to me that overexposure to sound caused the damage. I told them I knew this. They hit me with tuning forks. I couldn't hear a tone and I asked them how many Hz it was - they had to double check because they didn't know. It was 400 Hz.
-1	20 yrs in the health care field. ranging from the ER to surgery. 
1	I work in employee benefits I am required to have a basic knowledge of different medical procedures strictlty for coverage purposes
1	About 10 years ago I started having abdomil pain. Instead of going golfing, which would have been a horrible idea, I went to the hospital and told them that my appendix was getting ready to rupture. I wasn't entirely sure but the symptoms seemed to line up. Sure enough it had perforated by the time I got into surgery.
1	I have a little bit of medical terminology knowledge because I have experience in the medical field from when I was in the military.  I understand enough and what I don't, I can look up to find the meaning for understanding. 
1	I sprained my ankle and was able to successfully treat it and mage rehab for it.
1	I have shown a basic knowledge of health throughout my pregncy. I am 9 months pregnt, and whenever I needed further clarification I would ask questions.
-1	I am knowledgable about how my body feels. I was having major pain and I lept ending up in the ER for it. They kept sending me home and I knew I had a problem. I did some research and I could pin point it was my gall bladder. I then went to a doctor and he said yes it in deed was and I was rushed into surgery that day. I know how to find the information that I need when I need.  
-1	I feel like something that showed my knowledge was when I explained to my spouse that genders are suppose to clean themselves a certain way.
1	I knew that ibuprofen and acetminophen are different
-1	I think that what gave me the most knowledge was when my dad had a heart attack and we all were told of his chances and life expectancy after the surgery. It really hit home to a lot of us because at the time several of us were still smoking and that was the first thing the doctor said we should all stop doing. 
1	I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes when I was 16. When I moved to a new city when I was 22 I had to find a new doctor. One of the requirements of my new doctor was to meet with a nutritionist and a diabetes educator. I had to demonstrate to each of them my knowledge of the disease and show that I was capable of maging it. 
1	My husband that passed away had diabetes and wounds that required care. He also had kidney failure and other things. I was very attentive to the doctors and learned a million things about how to take care of him and myself. 
1	I'm not sure I am more knowledgeable than the average person. I've had a basic atomy class in college but that's about it. I've been to the doctor and had been in a bad car wreck in the year 2000, but those experiences didn't really increase my knowledge. 
1	Recently I have been losing weight. I have done this be operating in a caloric deficit. Even without exercising I have lost weight.
-1	I was able to treat my cold by drinking lots of fluids.
1	one time I was getting a prescription for anti biotics. the doctor asked if i took it before and i said yes. she asked if i had constipation with it and i said it wasn't too bad. I told her that I knew that if I took pro biotics as well it would help replenish my gut flora and my digestion would be healthier. she agreed.
1	An uncle of mine had issues with his shoulder. He asked me for advice, as I have some orthopedic knowledge. He had a shoulder replacement done but had some pain afterwards. I spoke with him and told him a few tests to have his orthopedist administer, and they found the underlying issue for most of his pain.
1	In a previous career I was supervising residential clients. I recognized from a client's symptoms (chest pain, numbness down his left side) that he may be having a heart attack. I was able to get him medical attention quickly and he suffered no long-term effects.
1	My dad was sick in the hospital. When the doctor came in to talk to us about what was going on I understood most of what he was talking about
1	I think just living through a medical problem, not even your own, helps you gain knowledge. I learned a lot about cancer watching my mother go through it. You learn about the problems, and things that drs dont tell you
1	At one point when I had a large amount of blood in my urine I went to see a local urinologist.  We discussed the fact that I had kidney stones present in my uriry system, and I felt like I had a good comprehension of what my then state of health was.  Whenever I had a question about the subject I felt comfortable asking him for greater detail.
1	"I know how to mage my asthma well enough by now that it's exhausting if I see a new doctor and they try to give me asthma pamphlets. I went to an urgent care once to refill a prescription before a trip, and the woman treating me tried to lecture me about how to mage my asthma and handed me ""what is asthma?"" pamphlets. There was literally no reason for this; my asthma had been fine for years and I'd heard everything already."
1	My dad got diagnosed with diabetes so I helped him come up with some meals that won't be bad for his blood sugar.
1	I recently went to the dentist and was able to easily describe my tooth pain and also tell him which tooth # it was according to knowing the tooth chart
1	When in a pharmacy or store searching for over-the-counter medicine, it is up to the individual to decide what they require. No doctor is available to give advice, only the knowledge you currently have, and the information on the labels. From having children, I've grown accustomed to reading and interpreting these labels on children's medicine.
1	My boyfriend had cirrhosis and I was his caregiver.  I learned to determine when it was appropriate to take him to the hospital for elevated ammonia levels without lab results.
1	When my nephew ate peanut butter he started having an allergic reaction but because I knew about his epipen I was able to take it out and help him stop the reaction.
1	In addition to having 2 children and 3 minor surgeries, I graduated with a degree in exercise science that required me to take multiple atomy/physiology classes. After graduation I worked in both a general practitioners office and in an orthopedic surgeon's office. I was exposed to plenty of medical issues there.
-1	"I had to take my grandmother to the doctor's office. I was the one who had to 'translate"" between her and the doctor. I ended up processing a lot and being able to explain it to her. "
-1	the only knowledge i have is both my mom and dad are in the medical feild
1	After injuring my core area when weightlifting I rightly assumed that I had somehow strained a muscle. After visiting the hospital my assumptions were proven correct.
1	When I had my daughter and my water broke, I knew something was wrong. I had done research on what the liquid would look like and my liquid was different. I explained this to the nurse thinking that I had an infection based on the fluid color and she didn't take me seriously but then the doctor diagnosed me with an infection of the amniotic sac. 
1	Sometimes I like to look up information of symptoms before I go to a doctor. I tell them what's wrong (the symptoms) and I try to make an educated guess as to what the problem might actually be. Many times I get it right.
1	I went to an ER and had researched my problem beforehand and asked the doctor if he thought I was having esophageal spasms. He thought that was a possibility but was generally stumped, I felt I knew more than him about the differentials
1	I have a rash on my leg. I was able to determine that it was actually eczema. 
1	I read a lot to learn. When I was ive enough to trust a doctor who deliberately messed up my knee I had to learn a lot about what he had done and how to fix it.
1	I calculate the sugar that in the package of cookie before I eat it.
1	I have not had that experience.
-1	Having to research and read about my results when a doctor just rambles it off.  Either researching the true meaning or asking a friend who is a nurse.  Just understanding that certain things are not good versus things that are.
-1	I knew I had a broken finger when I looked at it, and it was twisted the wrong way. That is my medical skill level.
-1	My daughter had an ovarian tumor at 11 years old. I took her to 9 doctors who would not treat her because of being uninsured. When I filly took her to the E.R., they explained the treatment and that she would need surgery. I understood this fully. 
1	My daughter had anemia and was hospitalized.  I stayed with her is the hospital and since I wasn't sleeping anyway spent most of the night researching anemia.  By the time the doctor came in the next day, I was very knowledgable about the condition in general and about possible treatments.
1	I advocated for myself around getting what I needed to accurately assess certain symptoms I was having. I was on a diagnostic schedule for two years. When the hospital said they were certain that it wasn't malignt, I advocated for stepping back to regular screenings.
1	I had lyme disease and I diagnosed myself. I had to travel 100 miles to a doctor that would give me the right type of tests to find it. The local doctor just gave me one test and said I didn't have it.
-1	One time I wanted to find out whether I had a food intolerance to peanuts. I tried foods to see if this was a health issue to me. I also did some research to see what symptoms I had. In the end, I found out that I might have an intolerance, so I try to avoid eating foods that may contain peanuts.
1	I guess school would be one instance. Just learning about the body and other issues.
1	This happened when my aunt was diagnosed with Breast Cancer last year. Since I have already lost a friend to breast cancer and have a friend who has been a cancer survivor, i was able to pass on some informed knowledge to my family on this issue.
1	I don't really have anything fantastic to share, other than knowing CPR at school. So when someone there choked, I was able to help them out pretty quickly.
1	I knew that I didn't need to take my daughter to the doctor for every little thing.
-1	everytime i have to go with my mother to the doctor and explain to her whats going on.
1	I have worked as a C and been around a lot of nurses and doctors.
1	When I last saw a doctor, I was told that it's important that I get exercise at least three times a week. Ever since then, I've been religiously working out three or more times a week. Since then, I've had more energy and felt happier about life in general.
1	My friend's mom mentioned she was having a lot of usea and dizziness throughout the day. Based on what I learned in school, I thought she had vertigo. Turns out she did.
1	While i was pregnt there is a lot of info that you need to know. I was very well-informed. 
-1	when my appendix burst, i knew my dr didnt know what they were talking about so i started do research on my own
1	After having been diagnosed with a medical condition that might need surgery, I have read and learned enough material to possibly avoid getting the surgery.
1	When my wife was having stomach pains i suggested we go to the hospital and it might be an ulcer or her appendix. When we got to the hospital those were the first two things that the doctor mentioned he would be looking for
-1	I have not been in such a situation
1	Having family members go through major health issues, i.e. Cancer, Diabetes
-1	I had a ganglion cyst and when i went to the doctor for a check up,he was very impressed to know that i had all the information about it.
1	I've had to go to the doc for various things for myself and others. I try to research what I can when I can.
1	I get sinus infections fairly often. For this reason, I have to switch up antibiotics and steroids so that I do not get used to them. It is important that I know the side effects of the medications I  am on because each one is different.
1	My brother and I were playing soccer in our backyard. He was barefoot and when he went to kick the ball, he accidentally hit his toe in a way that caused it to break. I knew from my experience with a broken toe, the only thing you can really do it tape it to another toe to stabilize it while it heals. I helped my brother tape the toe to the one next to it with medical tape.
1	My medical and health knowledge is really limited to what I experienced in my life.  We've been relatively healthy so I don't have an extensive back ground. 
1	I was diagnosed with MS because I was having random muscle issues and some twitching.  This call was also based on the fact that my mom has MS.  Although the Neuro told me as such I used my knowledge and understanding that MS is a disease of exclusion and that there was a decent chance I did not actually have the ailment.  As it turned out I did not.
1	I can often pinpoint what is wrong with friends just by having spent lots of time around a doctor.
-1	I am very a lot about different types of pain medicines because I have researched and done a lot of them.
-1	I told the doctor that I had a blood clot and he kept saying that I didnot until I went back for a CT scan that revealed a blood clot.
1	An experience that i have is when i started taking a perscription medicine and it showed all the risk's in percents and also in the standard of 1 in 5 or 1 in 10 makes me a little more knowledgable by trying to learn about the percents
1	When my son was an infant, he was very sick and showing signs of dehydration. After not being able to get him to eat, I took him to the emergency room
1	I have watched my grandparents age over the last few years and they lived healthy lives but between the four of them they have experience Alzheimers, cancer including leukemia and some kind of uterus issue, a stroke and digestive issues so I have picked up alot of information that way. 
1	Suffering from diverticulosis, I was in a conversation with another person who also had the pockets in their colon. I knew of some foods specifically popcorn, foods with skins and seeds that were known to aggravate the condition. I was able to tell them that those foods should be avoided which they did not know beforehand. 
1	I lost a kidney and was in and out of the hospital for close to 6 months due to complications with the surgery. I picked up quite a few bits of medical knowledge during that experience
1	Well, I've taken a few cpr courses and was able to utilize them fully in an emergency involving someone at a golf course.
1	The last time I went to the doctor and she told me about my blood work, I was able to understand what she was saying 
-1	I do this almost daily, I am an nurse. Its part of my job
1	My friend messaged me freaking out because on of her clients said a patch on her skin looked like skin cancer. She sent me a picture and I immediately recognized it as exzema. She felt a little better but went to her doctor to check and it was exzema
1	I monitor my blood pressure and glucose levels. I use electronic aids.
1	My mom had breast cancer and the lingo and language was part of daily life. I worked in the exercise science field for a while. My wife is a physical therapist working at an old folks home and the lingo is part of my daily life.
1	I am a pharmacist so it happens almost every day. Having to counsel a patient on what they should take based on their symptoms, or explaining to them the things they didn't understand from the Dr. 
1	When I was experiencing chest pain and arm pain and knew to get to the hospital since it could indicate a heart attack. Don't worry, it wasn;t though.
1	N/a
1	I work as the lead MRI technologist at my facility so it is very important that I am well-versed in many aspects of medical issues. Oftentimes the type of MRI I perform will be determined by the patient history as well as what I can see on the scan.
1	
1	I AM A PERSOL TRAINER.  I HAVE A DEGREE AND THE TOP CERTIFICATION IN THE COUNTRY.  I HAVE WORKED FOR A HOSPITAL WELLNESS CENTER FOR 14 YEARS.  EVERYDAY, O HAVE CLIENTS WITH FORMER HEART DISEASE, CARDIO PULMORY ISSUES, KNEE OR HOP REPLACEMENTS, BACK ISSUES, FIBROMYALGIA, ARTHRITIS, ETC.  I HAVE TO DEMONSTRATE MY KNOWLEDGE EVERYDAY IN ORDER TO BEST HELP MY CLIENTS AMD OUR MEMBERS.
1	I think just in general, knowing when to go to the doctor's or not. I don't need to go for every cold or flu I get, but if I don't start seeing improvement after a few days, I know it's a good idea to go.
1	I correctly diagnosed my own low testosterone level, I guess. 
1	My doctor prescribed me coedine. I told her about my past with coedine and Kaiser hospital. She then understood and prescribed me a different medicine.
1	I do not have much knowledge of health or medical issues other than what has persolly happened to me which is not much.
1	I had a mole that looked like it had unclear edges looked at and removed 
1	I had an abnormal mole on my bavk. I knew the signs to watch for skin cancer because of research I did. I went to the Doctor and a biopsy cam back abnormal. They removed the mole and since it was caught early, I had no complications.
1	Uh....I suppose I would have to say whenever I go to the doctor and he tells me about my treatment options. I understand what is meant when I'm told percentages relating to success.
-1	I was assisting my grandfather with care and noticed that his feet were swelled.  I knew that could mean heart or kidney problems.  I called the doctor and explained the situation.  He was admitted with kidney failure.
1	I can't think of a time that I was the expert in the room or was able to demonstrate more health or medical knowledge that others around me.
-1	i'm not sure, i've never had a major medical issue or event or anything.
1	A few years ago, I suffered an orbital blowout. I live in a relatively small town, so when I heard that I would need surgery to fix it, I immediately began researching doctors in a larger city about 3 hours away. I knew they would be more skilled in fixing my issue. When I got to the doctor in the big city, he was horrified by the treatment I had received from the doctor's in a small town at the initial appointments (so I could receive a referral to this doctor) and was very glad I had come to see him instead. I felt this experience showed that I knew what was best for myself, and that I was knowledgeable about the type of medical care I needed to receive.
1	I was able to talk to my friend going through depression about what her therapy and medication options might be, based on my family experience with my mother. Having helped her through her own depression I was able to recognize it in my friend and help her to find a path to treatment. 
-1	i had a heart murmur when i was a new born but other than that no other medical issues.
1	When I had a nerve pain in my back and leg, I went to a specialist for treatment.
1	I would say anytime someone asks me about pregncy. As funny as it is I have 4 children so I always kind of feel knowledgeable in that area, most times I have experienced it pretty much all/ 
1	when I recently reviewing my son's bloodwork results and looked at his results against the the range that was allowable for each value.
1	I had a lump in my testicular. I was able to determine by its texture that it was a cyst. I went to the doctor but already knew with research the issue. 
1	I recently had blood work done and I was given the results that showed what a normal range would be and what my actual results were.  I was able to interpret this fairly ease and see that almost all of my results were within normal parameters and to note that few areas where they were outside the normal.  
1	I don't understand this question. I will try to answer the best I can. I was experiencing horrible abdomil pain and it was like a burning sensation and stabbing knives. I remembered in health class being told all the issues in the digestive tract, and believed it to be reflux disease, which it turned out to be after testing. 
1	"I'm remembering a time when I went to the doctor and said I had the flu. He asked ""why do you think it is the flu and not a cold?"" and using information I had gathered I explained the difference between the symptoms of the two and related them to what I was experiencing. He kind of chuckled and said ""so you know an antibiotic won't help, right? Everyone comes in here and demands an antibiotic."" I got a dose of tamiflu and left."
1	When I had a sore throat with white patches I knew to go to the doctor to find out if it was strep because untreated strep can cause problems later.
1	I was feeling really sick and having diarrhea and usea and severe pain in my upper right back area. I knew I had gallstones so i went to the doctor and they confirmed I had a gallstone. I was told I needed surgery. I refused and found a tural treatment online. I have had no pain since starting the tural treatment. My doctor sucks and I don't need surgery.
-1	At my current doctor I was interviewing her to see if I wanted to take my youngest son there. I asked her if she was familiar with intact (uncircumcised) care. This is a topic I've researched thoroughly and know pretty much everything about and know that many doctors aren't educated on it. She informed me that no she wasn't informed , but tried to give me false information after that. I then quoted the AAP (which she is supposed to be following) and what they state for the proper care and yet she still argued with me. 
1	I have slowly learned terms over the years in my life by being in school, reading things online, and also helping my parents with their health. I enjoy talking about medical things so I also learn in my conversations. I think tv shows help too.
1	I have always had low blood pressure for most of my life. When I was on birth control pills, one of the potential side effects was higher blood pressure, but it didn't affect me. When a doctor recently proposed a medication for me that could cause high blood pressure, I told him I would be fine with taking it, because I was not concerned that mine would get too high.
1	My mom had breast cancer. I had to educate myself about it and take care of her post-surgery, as well as during chemo and radiation. 
-1	When I was a child I had open heart surgery and now as an adult I have AFIB so I have learned a lot about the heart and the issues it can have. 
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when my friend took their temperature and said it was 98 degrees and assumed that was high. I know that average temperature is 98.6. I told them this and relieved their concerns as a result of my knowledge.
1	I have had a few conditions requiring surgery and a couple injuries that required a specialist. I've also had two at/high risk pregncies. 
1	I used to do a lot of reviews on surgeon procedures, so one day my doctor showed me x-rays of some of the procedures that were going to be done to a family member. To my surprise, I knew what the charts were showing.
1	My son spit out a new food that was in his mouth, he started getting hives and itching. I knew it was an allergic reaction to that food so we gave him an epipen, benedryl and took him to the ER in case there was a secondary reaction.
1	I cared for my mother for 2 years when she was termilly ill and was able on several occasions to predict what was happening better than her dr. I extended her lifeby taking her to er and in the end accurately predicted that she needed hospice care which her dr disagreed with. I insisted and she did indeed pass 9 days later.
-1	I worked as an EMT many years ago so my children frequently call me if something is happening they think I can help with. Recently my son-in-law felt dizzy, faint, and was sweating a lot. I felt he was probably having some type of panic attack, but I erred on the side of caution and called EMS. Those were also signs of a heart attack.
1	I went to a specialist for pain that I was having in my abdomen. He insisted that I was suffering from a stomach ailment. I didn't feel like that was the case. I stopped eating dairy and my problems went away.
-1	My brother recently developed asthma. I have a long history with asthma so I am able to give him advice. In the beginning he was worried and asked many questions.
1	My second c-section.  I knew what to expect and how everything would go so I was pretty relaxed and confident through it all.
1	I turned to homeopathic medicine for my hormol deficiency issues. I studied the subject for quite a while and came out with a proper remedy for my condition. 
-1	I had a medical examition. I was shown the xray and had already known what was wrong before the doctor explained it to me.
1	I worked as a nurses aid for three years. 
1	I work for a health insurance company right now. So I talk to a lot of people regrading their health and medical issues. So I'd say that at this time in my life, I have a large amount of knowledge on the topic.
-1	I WAS AN ALCOHOLIC TWELVE YEARS AGO. I KNEW IF I DIDN'T STOP I WOULD BE DEAD.
1	I heavily researched pregncy when I was pregnt with my son. I felt informed about my health and what was happening to my body.
1	I understood when I had to go to the emergency room for my grandmother's stroke. She could smell toast and had other symptoms that stood out. I immediately drove her to the hospital. 
1	When I turned 22 I was diagnosed with Chronic asthma. After that I began asking questions and reading online as much as I could about medicine and other medical tasks. 
-1	I was describing a medical test that was recommended to me for the breast cancer gene and I was explaining what it tested for to my boyfriend who was not sure what the test entailed. 
1	I felt like I was knowledgeable about health and medical issues when I was having a conversation about them with my sister. She was asking me a lot of questions and I knew most of the answers to them.
-1	I knew how to set a broken wrist at home real quick so my friend could get to the hospital without being in so much pain. My dad did it for me when I was a kid, and I remembered what he did.
1	Really just recommending a vegan (mostly raw) diet to people with health issues. If you have bad headaches and sinus issues....try giving up that sty dairy. Diabetic? Switch to a vegan diet. I can't begin to put into words how many people I know that have thanked me for recommending this after their health drastically improved without medications.
1	I went to the hospital last year for constant vomiting and I could tell the doctor my symptoms and kept track of how often I vomited. I knew how to find my temperature and knew what he was talking about for treating me for the most part. 
1	Family had medical issues constantly and I have read a lot of documents on it. 
-1	i have issues with afib
1	Daily I have to check my blood pressure to know whether or not to take a 2nd dosage of my medication.  I must know what my goal blood pressure is in order to know if a single dosage was enough.
1	There was a friend of mine that was experiencing some pain in her legs and swelling. So I did some research and I was able to come up with a few reasons this could be. When figured them out she went to the doctor and we were right. 
-1	When I was younger I had to start taking blood pressure medication. When I started the doctor gave me all the details and potential side effects of the medicine. 
1	I have always had an interest in medicine. When I was a child I wanted to enter the medical field but I never did but the fascition was always with me. I have been a patient advocate for many of my friends over the years to help them vigate a health crisis and have learned a lot along the way.
1	Earlier in the survey I described my chronic vertigo, which I filly had to diagnose for myself after my then-doctor ran a bunch of expensive tests and couldn't figure out a thing. He never thought to ask if I'd recently gotten new glasses -- I had, and it turned out that they were poorly adjusted and they caused chronic eyestrain. I researched the issue myself and learned how to control the vertigo most of the time through simple self-care -- staying hydrated, getting enough rest, dealing with my anxiety disorder, taking care not to strain my eyes, etc.. I figured this all out for myself because my doctor couldn't mage.
-1	When I got Bronchitis. I knew that I had it from previous experiences. I went to the doctor and told him what I thought I had. That's what I had. I new the medicine I would get.
1	
-1	I got diagnosed with shingles when I was 21 and I went to the doctor for it and got informed of plenty of knowledge about shingles.
1	There was one situation where a friend of mine was very sick and couldn't keep any food down, so I used my knowledge of health issues and suggested they drink an electrolyte beverage to avoid getting dehydrated. Dehydration can cause even more risks and serious illness, so it is important to keep fluids in your system, even if you can't digest food properly.
-1	When I had to go the University of Utah Medical Center for a heart transplant workup. I had to give them information for myself as well as my family so they could do genetic research to see if why I have congestive heart failure is due to a genetic problem. 
1	I read a lot and science and medicine are topics of interest to me. Also, I've lost both parents to cancer so I've been in and out of hospitals a lot. My son, too, suffers from ADHD, so I've done a lot of research online about his condition.
1	Whenever I have an issue that is medically related, I tend to do a lot of research.  I like being informed, even though the information may not be positive.  When I was first diagnosed with high blood pressure, I did a lot of research to find out what to do about it.  I'm not always good about doing the right things, but I do know what to do.
1	My son is allergic to peanuts and related foods.  One day he ate something that caused an allergic reaction.  I read the directions and administered an Epi-Pen dose before driving him to an urgent care center.
1	Knowing how people treat their diabetes
1	As a Soldier, I once had to install a saline lock and start fluids on a wounded patient in the back of a Humvee.
1	When writing a paper for my health class, I discussed how cholesterol is not necessarily bad. There is HDL and LDL, and the thing to worry about is LDL. Cholesterol is needed to build a lot of structures in our body, such as cell membranes. The more cholesterol we eat, the less our body has to produce it, so it is not bad at all. Cholesterol from eggs and fish are helpful in raising our HDL levels.
1	My former workplace had a wellness program benefit.  You took a health assessment online, had biometric screenings done, and then received a health outlook with specific items to work on.  Doing that made it easier for me to talk to my doctor about specific health care concerns, and what else I could be doing to reduce my risks.
1	I was being treated with one GLP-1 agonist, but it was changed to non-covered by my insurance. I called my specialist and asked if he could prescribe a different one, gave him the other drugs in class, and asked if one of them wouldn't be better than the other options (although not as good as the dropped one) based on study-based efficacy.
1	I have basic health knowledge, including concepts like eating a more fibrous diet to maintain gut health and a health weight. I know that BMI is a good indicator of health if a person falls within a certain range for their height. I know that 10,000 steps a day is the minimum for remaining fairly active and that 30 minutes of activity is recommended for a healthy lifestyle. I also know that moderation is important with regards to foods like sugar, saturated fat, etc.
1	I have Hashimoto, a thyroid disease. I have been learning what my average levels should be, and when I need to be on or off of my medicine. The warning signs of when I should have my blood levels tested also.
1	I have a degree in biochemistry.  I have also taken some classes on physiology as well as medicine. I also have a general knowledge of the intuitive part of medicine and an understanding of medicine from a chemical standpoint. 
1	Eating fatty foods will not only make you gain weight, but also raise blood pressure and bring one's cholesterol higher
1	I don't have any specific experience, but I've read up on things on webMD, and have also taken a first aid course and an atomy course when I was in college.
1	I worked for a company called Parker Hannifin in South Korea 15 years ago and they employed some Filipinos. As part of employment they had a liver function test. The test was positive. The Korean mager wanted me to be there to help discussing this result with the employees. The mager mistakenly gave the test information as being dire. I corrected him and explained that this test is a prelimiry test that only means you have to get additiol tests before there can be a conclusion.
1	My physician told me I had high blood pressure once during an exam, and I instantly asked the numbers. They were within the range where diet and exercise could still reduce my blood pressure without medication, so I asked if I needed medication and they said not. My ability to understand my numbers and subsequently treat myself is an example of me being able to understand medical outcomes.
1	Supporting my dad in the hospital when he had a heart attack - talking to doctors, figuring out best way to proceed
1	I had an injured shoulder from a sports injury when I was younger. When some activities aggravated my shoulder, I was able to remember what to do to relieve the pain. 
-1	MY experience that i had with knowledge of health is reading my blood work results. After the doctors office i came home and reread my bloodworm results. 
-1	I work as a security guard. While covering an outdoor event I had to perform CPR on someone. I had to perform for a long time before the paramedics came. When they came they told me I saved a life because if I didn't perform CPR, the person would not have made it. My training helped me to know what to do to save the life.
1	While seeing a new eye doctor for the first time I was able to accurately describe my condition and its potential impact on my future, the doctor was impresses by my understanding and comprehension of my condition.
1	i got an infection in my leg. I knew it wouldnt go away on its own. My doctor informed me that antibiotics would take care of it after getting it drained.
-1	Every time i go to the doctor, which is all the time now because my back is getting worse.  I have been to 4 different doctors, including specialists.  Plus, they thought I had something wrong with my enlarged liver, so I had to have a biopsy, which showed a normal liver.  
1	My mom was having problems with kidney stones, and I did some research and told her to ask the doctor about a few kinds of different treatments and preventative measures. The doctor was just treating her symptoms but did not really seem to be looking for a cause.
-1	I have learned a lot from having anxiety and panic attacks. I can help other people who describe their symptoms to me if they are similar to what I experience. 
-1	Had to give friend diabetic shot of insulin
1	My wife is a Type 1 diabetic. I have been able to knowledgeably discuss her needs with doctors, nurses and representatives from medical equipment manufacturers.
-1	I was having headache, coughing, and runny nose, I searched my symptom and predicted that I have the flu Influenza rather than just a code. I went to the doctor and I was right.
-1	While I was pregnt, I paid close attention and studied everything I needed to know about all different types of situations I should be alert for.  I felt that I went into my appointments with my OB and understood approx. 95% of everything she said I would need at that time.  When I was diagnosed with preclampsyia my doctor wanted to induce me however the babies heart rate was dropping considerably throughout the night and the induction had barely been started.  I knew that it would be more beneficial for the health of the baby and myself if I had a c section right away, then if I waited to try and induce labor, go through the practice for the next few days and wear out both my body and the baby.  Having knowledge and understanding helped me make a very important medical decision and the health of my baby benefited from that decision.
-1	I had to have home health care come to my house for a little over 2 months. I learned a lot about the healing process the body has to go through, things to help your body heal faster. 
1	A man was having a heart attack at a mall and i am cpr and AED certified so i grabbed the little red box off the wall and applied the sticky pads and everything while others called 911..that man lived :)
1	I've gained 40 pounds in the last 4 years.  I know that this is not good, it is not healthy.  It increases my risk for various ailments.  I need to lose the weight I have put on.
1	talking with  my gp about dealing with some health issues with dietary changes and supplementation rather than taking a prescription. i showed him the research i'd been reading (i'm not in medicine but am a published microbiologist) and he agreed to try it my way. my improved test results a year later supported my research.
1	I took my daughter to the doctor after I discovered a growth under her arm. I did some research and discovered it was MRSA. I ordered some Manuka honey for topical treatment and we also took the drugs he prescribed. I'm not sure which worked best but she was cured of it. 
1	I'm not really sure what you mean. I have taken college level statistics which has given me some knowledge on how to process percentages and chances.
1	My client was stung by a bee and I began noticing the puffiness and swelling that occurred. After witnessing his reactions I realized he was allergic to bees, which we were uware of, and I properly used an epipen on him (that was actually another clients).
-1	I dont have any experience at all. just myself and being a care giver for my mom
-1	While having blood clots I have to watch sitting for long periods, going on long trips, and flying for very long periods with out getting up. I have to move every few hours to prevent these clots
1	When I had the flu, I knew that it wasn't just a normal cold because I was shivering, had muscle pain, couldn't eat without vomiting, and I had a fever of 103 degrees. I knew that I needed to get to the doctor immediately because I was severely dehydrated. 
1	family members have celiac disease so much research, appointments and flares have resulted from the diagnosis
-1	When I had appendicitis, I knew before I was diagnosed based on my symptoms. I was proven correct by my doctor.
1	I have COPD and have had a number of broken bones and have looked up a lot of things.  also am very curious and have studied everything from diets to pharmacology
1	i guess when my mom had to undergo chemo, I knew vaguely how the alpha radiation treatment worked.  I told her how some radiation is emitted but can be blocked by paper, and that alpha radiation is that type, and so the pill provides radiation to your body, while the skin kind of keeps it inside.
1	Lots of hospital tv shows. Lol... Just basic knowledge and most of these are math story problems which is pretty much common sense math.
-1	I knew how to read my prescription labels and take my medicine properly.
1	I manually take my moms BP to monitor it as the doctor is adjusting her meds.
1	As a lifeguard, it is imperative to know about health and medical issues. I must be aware of what to do in injury situations, as well as how to treat common injuries or illnesses I encounter.
1	When I had floaters in my eye, I knew that there could be a retil tear so I went to see the ophthalmologist.
-1	I remember researching information on heart attacks after my grandfather had one. I tried to explain how to live a healthy life after his heart attack to him from all the medical information I read about.
1	Before I went to the hospital for a nervous break down, I already knew I was also Bi-Polar (thanks to the web) When I began telling them my symptoms and they filly diagnosed me with it, i wasn't shocked and already knew what I needed to deal with for life.
1	Every time I go to the doctor I read health brochures. 
-1	Cancer mutations with taking targeted drug medicine for lung cancer because of my husband's cancer history, and I know a lot of statistics are out of date with cancer survival rates.
1	A friend was having breathing problems and refused to go to the emergency room. I looked up his symptoms online and convinced him to seek treatment right away. My diagnoses was proved correct.
1	"I used to be a customer service worker at a gym.  My gym offered equipment orientations to people.  The people who did the equipment orientations were supposed to have training and/or credentials that I did not have.  One night there was an equipment orientation scheduled, and the only person who was supposed to present the information had to deal with another problem.  So I started the orientation and explained how to use the treadmill safely, despite not being ""properly"" trained."
1	The closest I can get to an experience like that is by telling anyone who asks me for medical assistance to go to a doctor and ask them. I don't really have any persol medical knowledge.
1	I correctly self-diagnosed my torn Achilles Tendon in high school. I got confirmation from professiols later, but before I could meet them I was able to mage it well because I knew what was wrong
1	My daughter had a nose bleed, everyone said tilt your head back. I said no, tilt yor head forward and apply pressure.
1	I've had to spend quite a bit of time in hospitals growing up, and getting a lot of surgeries.  I had to go to the doctor a lot and be very inquisitive about my conditions because if i didn't have the right info, and went to another doctor bad things could have happened, Misdiagnoses.
1	These felt more like math problems rather than medical problems. Since I've been studying math in my undergraduate career, they didn't feel so hard to answer. 
1	Being able to tell what my symptoms were when I get sick with bronchitis.  
1	One of my coworkers, who is a female, was feeling off. She didn't think it was a big deal, but I told her to go to the hospital. I did this because I knew females have varying symptoms for heart attacks. It turns out she did have a heart attack. 
1	I take Vitamin C for in creasing my immune system 
-1	I feel very knowledgeable about health issues and medical things. I was in the field for years, and physically could not do it anymore. If it weren't for my back, I might still be in the medical field.
1	I was diagnosed with A-fib a couple of years ago, but I had only experienced the symptoms a couple of times ever. The doctor wanted to put me on a daily medication that lowered my heart rate. My heart rate is already turally low, so I questioned the doctor about putting me on a daily medication for something that had only ever happened twice in my life. She agreed with me and gave me a different prescription to take as needed, and I haven't needed to take one as of yet.
1	I had to keep track of my mother's cancer treatment regimen which meant maintaining a walking encyclopedia of her more than 30 year journey with technology, medications and procedures.
1	My recent health issues, when I contracted pneumonia, and developed CHF.
1	I was experiencing major pain in my back abdomil and chest.  After doing research online I was fearful that I may have had an appendix issue or some type of liver cancer or something along those lines.  I described my issue to the doctor and he thought it might be appendix as well but after tests it was determined to be Gerd and not something more serious 
1	I don't have a specific experience. But I've read about general medical conditions over the years.
-1	I was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis 5 years ago.  I am up to speed on the latest drugs and what my symptoms are.  What is an attack and what is not.  
-1	being middle-aged with an 8 year old boy, I have had plenty of experience with the medical field. My dad had a heart attack and I have been watching my weight and sugar intake.
1	I have no first hand experience with health or medical issues, however, extensive schooling has given me a lot of experience with how to deal with chronic issues and how to deal with symptoms. 
-1	I was put on new blood pressure medicine and asked the questions and was able to take it as perscribed
1	I took health courses in my College that left me with very informative education on health and medical issues.  One time I had pain in my inner ear area, and I figured it must be from impacted ear cerumen.  My intuition was correct and after going to the ENT, they removed it from me and the pain went away.
1	In caring for my father I have a lot involvement in his medical issues. I am able to demonstrate my medical knowledge by being aware of changes and discussing them with the doctors. 
1	My knowledge comes mostly from open sources: internet, blogs, health sites. Plus my own human experience.
-1	I cannot think of an experience in my life that truly demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues.
-1	i have no experience other than growing up with my mother who is a nurse.
-1	I had been injured in a bad car accident and was responsible for my medical care. I trusted my doctor to refer me to good care, and he did. I went to several specialists and was able to heal well.
1	I was having some heart problems recently, and after seeing a specialist and having some tests, I was able to receive a diagnosis from the specialist. I was able to demonstrate my knowledge of this when I eventually relayed that information to my boyfriend and family, who were also waiting to hear what the issue was. 
-1	I have considerable experience with health statistics. It is related to my job. 
1	My mother was a diabetic, and I had to learn alot about the disease.  I helped her give herself her daily injections and learned quite a bit about insulin. 
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues when I started feeling light headed and almost passed out, I knew to take my pulse and drink a cool glass of water.
-1	One time I pulled a muscle in my leg bad. It hurt really bad but I knew that if that happens you have to reduce inflammation. So I applied ice to it and by the next day it felt a lot better.
1	I do medical checkups once a year. After I get the report, I can understand what the report entails and change my diet to get certain levels back to normal range. 
-1	 I really can't think of any I don't have many health issues   
1	I was one of the main people taking care of my dad while he was ill.  I had to make sure I understood all of the dosages, allergies, contradicting prescriptions, etc.  I also had to understand it well enough to explain it to anyone else who may be taking care of him.  That to me proved that I knew what was going on as well.
1	I actually can't think of an experience that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	My son was exhibiting signs of hypothyroidism. Because I have this condition it was likely he did also.
1	I work as an administrative assistant in a medical office. I also have worked as a patient care technician and have had to record blood sugars, food intake, etc. 
1	I have migraines and I know to sit in a dark room with high humidity to reduce my migraines, since migraines can be caused by specific lights. 
1	I have researched the diabetes disease and  I now know a lot about diabetes. I researched the disease because a family member has it. 
1	Once my son was diagnosed with a syndrome by a geneticist without having any genetic blood testing done.  Over the next few years I kept bringing symptoms my son was having to the doctor's attention because they did not seem to be associated with the syndrome he was diagnosed with.  The doctor didn't listen to what I was saying.  I took him to another geneticist who agreed with me and did genetic blood testing on my son.  It turns out he did not have the origil syndrome he was diagnosed with but he had a completely different syndrome.
1	A person at my work had a stroke. I noticed that her face was becoming droopy. She said she was feeling a little off but she was okay. I called 911 right away. The doctor told her she could have been much worse if I hadn't noticed the signs of a stroke.
1	I had to have my gallbladder removed so I investigated everything that it entailed and what I could expect. I also found out what to expect after it was removed so I was prepared when I had it done.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is knowing that the reason my mother had so few platelets was because her bone marrow was not functioning correctly and because she didn't have many platelets any kind of even minor injury was dangerous to her because he body was uble to produce more / enough platelets to stop her from bleeding to death.
-1	I recently have had to go on drugs due to anxiety. I basically saw that anxiety was rising my blood pressure since I was always worried about stuff. So me and my doctor maged to find a perfect medicine for me.
-1	A family member asked me about a certain ilness and I read a lot about the topic. I felt reallly knowledgeable at the time and was able to explain accurately some of the procedures involved in the process. 
1	I wouldn't say I have a lot of knowledge, rather I try to document what is communicated by medical professiols and research the issues at home. Recently I was told I had a condition and made notes while at the Drs office, then came home and fully researched the issue to better understand it. 
-1	i can not think of a time 
-1	everytime i go to the doctor and have to bring up my food intake, i demonstrate my knowledge of nutrition
1	I accurately diagnosed my psoriasis based on reading about it and then the doctor confirmed it.
1	I took calcium and vitamin d to increase my bone density. Then I had my bone density tested and my doctor recommended I take calcium and vitamin d.
1	While in college I participated in a class where we worked to create a presentation on how to better one health. We used studies as well as our own observations to complete the presentation. 
1	I went to the doctor after I experienced severe depression on birth control. I maged to get it changed without bringing up that aspect of my symptoms. 
1	I do not believe I have the proper knowledge of health or medical issues. I leave that to the professiols. 
1	I helped keep my mother alive for many years by closely monitoring her many physical problems.  I assisted her in the hospital and at home with medication and other health related issues.
1	I was diagnosed with something that no doctor could figure out. They all thought I had a uriry tract infection and no medicine that they gave me worked. I started doing my own research to try and figure out what I had and it was a matter of getting the doctor's to listen to what I may possibly have. It turns out I filly found a urologist that agreed with me and that I did have intersitial cystitis. 
1	I used to work for an attorney as a legal researcher. We had a lot of medical cases involving supplements, vaccines, and malpractice cases so I learned a lot from that job.
1	I was diagnosed with hypothyroidism when I was 19. My thyroid was depressed from a two-month-long upper respiratory infection I had learned to live with. I used things I had learned through my behavioral magement class to cope with having a phobia of needles and doing regular blood draws. Since my thyroid wasn't damaged I actually went off the medicine within a year because I was exercising heavily (partially to prevent weight gain, partially to increase my energy) and avoiding foods that would further depress my thyroid (which I had to research on my own and my doctor did not give to me) 
-1	Both of my parents were in the medical field. So I know how would be as a career. I thought about doing it, but it was just really coplicated. I like studying about it and learning the treatments though.
-1	I was first on the seen of an acident and had to proivide cpralso I am good at self diagnose by knowledge and discernment as i did the last time i visit my primary and new that i had the flu with a secoindary issue
1	Providing patient care on a psychiatric eating disorder unit. 
1	I had a mole on my arm. I read the warning signs of a dangerous mole. It was cancer and was easily removed.
1	when i went to mental health and told the doctor what was wrong and what i needed
1	I once recalled my experiences with taking different kinds of antidepressants during a session with my psychiatrist. 
-1	Before my father passed away, I learned a lot of dialysis, since he was on dialysis for kidney failure, and he also had heart issues, so being close to him and seeing him almost daily and taking him to doctors, etc. I learned a lot.
-1	My back was aching me for days on end.  I took it upon myself to self diagnose the situation, looking online for ways to ease the pain from a tural and holistic way.  I knew that a doctor could not magically make my pain disappear, I had to do something for myself.  I iced the location of the pain and began an exercise regimen to begin the healing process.  I knew what I was doing and what needed doing and I did it.
1	My daughter was on a prescription and she was also doing a unit on jumping rope in PE. She came home one day uble to walk because her feet were so swollen. We took her to the ER and they told me that it couldn't be caused from an allergic reaction to medicine and there was something else wrong with her. They did all sorts of tests and found nothing. After a visit to her pediatrician we found out I was correct that she was having an electric reaction to the medicine and the jumping rope made it worse. I was right.
1	When I gave birth to both of my children, I wanted to know how my placentas looked. I know that if they were discolored or foul smelling there was a chance that I had an infection or the babies were in distress during delivery.
1	I witnessed a child having an allergic reaction. His lips and tongue were starting to swell and I told his mom he needed to go to the ER immediately.
-1	"After my second was born premature, I already had a lot of knowledge about the health and medical issues a micropreemie would face because my first child was also born as a micropreemie. The doctors and nurses didn't have to explain as much because we already knew a lot. When they did explain things to us, they would say, ""As you know already"". "
1	I was able to read the information about my prescription and figure out what the side effects actually meant. This helped me to decide if I should stay on the prescription or not.
1	I have a Bachelor's degree in Biology, and worked as a veteriry technician for several years. 
1	I got a cold and knew that it was communicable, so I stayed away from other people to keep from contracting it to them.  I rested more than usual so my body could fight the cold.
-1	My son was born with craniosynostosis. His diagnosis and surgery made me learn different things about medical issues.
-1	I was told after i had my last child that during my follow up i had an abnormal pap smear.  he is 22 now and i never went back, so i guess it was wrong.
1	I had several miscarriages. I educated myself about possible causes by visiting reputable sites online so that when I saw a specialist about it, I knew what he was talking about right away when he discussed my test results.
1	The first time I had my TSH checked, the results (along with a lot of others) were posted on my online medical account. The doctor didn't know quite what was wrong with me, so she had run a battery of tests. I was able to look at my results and figure out that all of them fell within a normal range except the TSH, which was well outside the allowed parameters.
1	I honestly can't think of one. Sorry.
-1	I guess answering questions the best I can
-1	When my daughter has the flu, I knew the symptoms between it and a normal cold.
1	My aunt has diabetes, so I am familiar with the disease and potential risks/treatments for it. I am also familiar with the symptoms of diabetes, and actively keep an eye out for these signs in my own health.
1	I have a major in biology and have read multiple scientific articles on various medical and health issues. 
-1	When I was able to preform CPR on a little boy after he drowned at lake. I was able to preform CPR and take his blood pressure and pulse.
1	I monitored my calorie in take for several weeks while I was exercising and dieting. Then I ate 80 percent of the calories later to see the results.
1	I had surgery on my elbow a while ago. I was able to follow the directions given to me for recovery. I was also able to do the physical therapy exercises that were given to me at home. I made a full recovery
-1	I have had several MRI on my back. Most of them I have asked for the paper copies and DVD copy. I have asked my surgeon to explain the procedures and findings on my MRI. With these instructions I can now read them and understand them
1	When I had kidney failure, I had lots of tests and doctors visits.  I asked them lots of intelligent questions and they were impressed by my knowledge.
-1	Pertaining to myself, I have demonstrated knowledge when I needed to take b-12 shots for a time and had to administer them myself. 
1	As my daughter went through chemotherapy treatments for leukemia, I took care of all her medications and keeping track of her treatments.  Sometimes when she would go inpatient at a local children's hospital where her main hospital had a satellite office, I would have to take extra care in watching everything they gave her as those nurses were not entirely trained to deal with a child going through chemotherapy.  This has let me to have more medical experience than some others. 
1	I went to the doctor to get an IUD. While I was there, my doctor asked me if I knew the possible side affects relating to my period, and I was able to tell her what they were.
-1	when i decided to get fit. i use to be 220lb as  a kid so i taught myself how to workout out, about nutrition and diet and things like that. currently i am trying to help my brother drop weight based on what i learned that helped me
-1	My husband had prostrate cancer and I was his caregiver.  I talked to his doctors, asked questions about his test results and did my own research.
-1	Both of my children got sick enough to be hospitalized with they were about 3 years old. They had contracted a virus and were losing body fluids through throwing up and diarrhea. I recognized the signs of dehydration and got them medical attention in time.
1	I had my second child at home. She landed in the toilet as I began to stand to go to the hospital. It was scary and exciting. 
1	A time in my life when I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when my niece had a severe headache. I knew from her symptoms that she was having a migraine ( I have had migraines since I was fourteen years old). 
1	I was once diagnosed with high blood pressure. After doing some research, I realized that a large part of the problem was my poor eating choices. I started making better choices and reduced my blood pressure readings.
1	When I had serious abdomil pains I looked up items in a medical book.  The symptoms described were that of kidney stones.  I waited 12 hours before going to a doctor who sent me for a cat scan.  He too thought it was stones.  It turned out to be correct.  
1	I was able to understand what the doctor's were telling my family about my mother's colon cancer and pass it along to the rest of my family.  I was able to decipher the prognosis and break the bad news to my sister and her husband.
1	I haven't learned much beyond high school health class. I know minor first aid, basic CPR, the Heimlich maneuver, and I helped my wife treat a sprained ankle with RICE, and I know the best treatment for a broken toe is to tape it to its closest partner. Everything else I've learned from the internet, which is admittedly not the best place to learn things.
1	I recently had to help my husband understand his diagnosis following a car accident. During the scan to make sure he was Ok they found a benign tumor on his liver as well as some disc deterioration in his neck. I was able to assemble a little write up on his diagnosis to send concerned family to emphasize the lack of risk each condition posed as well as the steps we were taking to treat them. At his follow up appointment, his doctor was impressed that he didn't have to cover much in regards to explation since we came in informed and ready to choose treatment options.
1	I do not have much knowledge of health issues since I have not had anything health related out of the norm. I have had 3 children but other than that I have no knowledge myself as to medical issues or conditions.
1	I always buy fat free milk and yogurt. In that way I consume less calories and fat.
1	I have many years of experience with common illnesses like the cold or the flu, so I can recognize the symptoms and know the treatments. In addition to that, I have diabetes, so I have to mage my glucose levels constantly. It involves a lot of calculations and familiarity with symptoms.
1	still at my age few issues chelesterol and blood pressure are OK. PCP seems to be on top of any possible issues. blood pressure &lt;120/70 and cholesterol is &lt;160 both good.
1	mom got a new prescription with detailed instructions. she needed help so i had to digest and explain the instructions to her in a way to make her understand
1	I have an autoimmune disease so there have been many instances where I was having to demonstrate what I already know and recognized about the disease
1	I really don't have that much knowledge of health or medical issues, but I have common sense and can try to research when necessary.
1	I went to college for osteology, so I had to become familiar with the body and diseases, and how diseases affect the body.
1	Going through my lower back surgeries. I was in an auto accident, and it definitely helped having some medical knowledge 
1	My doctor was talking to me about how a certain disease affects me. He used a lot of technical terms and I was able to understand almost all of them and ask him very intelligent questions that most people don't ask.
1	A few years ago I was diagnosed with high blood pressure, it runs in my family so my doctor put me on a low dose of it. While I was on the medicine I started to exercise and eat more healthy because I knew that if I did that it would help with my blood pressure and also help lower it. I was able to lower my blood pressure by doing this and eventually come off of the medicine all together.
1	When my child was very sick and a high fever, throwing up, and the shakes. I knew to strip him down and use a cold rag to try to cool him down along with medicine to try to help him feel better. I knew that if his fever got above 104 f to call a doctor but luckily that didn't happen.
1	I have ah usband with Crohn's disease, so I often go to the doctor with him. In addition to that, I have regular check ups, or if I get a cold I go. I also sometimes have allergic reactions tthat are really bad, so I go for that.
1	My grandad had leukemia. I would discuss the things that his doctors told him, so that he could better understand what they were telling him.
-1	I was able to question doctors. I was able to foresee their line of questioning.
1	When I was a teeger, my friend went into diabetic shock. I knew what to do because I had seen it online a few months earlier. We got her insulin steadied and she didn't suffer any damage to her health.
1	When I was in my 20s, I had already been diagnosed with anxiety disorder. However, I was experiencing symptoms that my doctors tried to chalk up to the anxiety that I KNEW were not just that. There was more wrong. I filly checked myself into the hospital, and demanded to be checked. They found out I was dangerously anemic.
1	I've had asthma most of my life. I visit my doctor for inhalers, and respiratory health issues in general.
1	I had knowledge of my health when I felt a lump on my back. I checked the internet and found that it was not harmful. I asked my doctor and he also said that it was not harmful to my health.
1	I have used my knowledge of health to live a healthier lifestyle and to lose weight. So far I have lost 60 lbs. 
1	I was diagnosed with high blood pressure and learned to measure my own blood pressure. I was able to make sure that I stay within a healthy range for my age and know if it goes to high that I might need to adjust my medication.
1	When dealing with my pregncy I was able to understand all of my test results and any actions that needed to be taken or followed up on. A specific example is when I had to have my fasting glucose level tested. I received my results and determined that I was in the normal range, which was then confirmed by the doctor at my next appointment.
-1	I have myasthenia gravis so im pretty knowledgable on some things
1	I have been through childbirth twice and had a daughter born with a kidney issue which later resolved.  Therefore, I learned to read and understand medical information.
1	I used to believe I had a health condition so I would extensively look up symptoms online. This made me think I had knowledge of medical issues but really just made me more anxious and upset. 
-1	I was told that I had a thyroid issue. I changed my diet and vitamins and I was able to improve my health. 
1	I have followed a high fiber diet for many years.  A few years ago, I began to experience a lot of bloating.  I consistently adjusted my diet and my use of fiber supplements until I found what was causing the problem.  It took several months to do that, but I was successful in reducing my discomfort.
1	I realized that I was suffering dehydration one day and that I needed water and electrolytes to get my body re-hydrated.
1	I was able to provide CPR to a child that was drowning in a community pool. I was CPR certified while training to become a lifeguard.
1	I know a lot a about medications and what they are taken for. Someone asked me what a statin drug was and I explained it was for cholesterol.
-1	When my aunt felt a tightening in her heart, we immediately took her to the hospital to have her heart checked. I knew that there was something wrong with her heart and wanted to find out what.
1	That a ketogenic diet has been shown to reduce risks and seizures associated with epilepsy, conversion of glucose to ketosis results in a more stable and less likely chance of seizure.  
1	My daughter had very serious health problems while she was growing all the way from birth to her 20's. It was necessary for me to learn as much about her health care as possible in order for me to take care of her and in order to teach other people to take care of her. It was like a full time job to learn all the things that pertained to her condition but it was necessary and I think I was successful. 
1	A friend asked my whether her blood pressure was at an acceptable level. She had a monitor, but absolutely no idea what an acceptable limit (120/80) was.
1	My mother was in a nursing home and taking Dilantin. She had grand mal seizures and was taken to the emergency room. They did a blood test and said it was zero. I was literally selling Dilantin assays at the time, knew about peaks and troughs etc. I told them to redo the test as I felt it was incorrect. They redrew and did the test. The level was in the therapeutic range. The seizures were due to trauma from a broken hip.
1	I went in for chest pains and difficulty breathing. I thought it might be a chest infection after looking it up on the internet and it turned out I was correct.
1	My father reached out to me regarding an issue he was having and I had some knowledge of what his symptoms might be caused by. I confirmed this with my wife who confirmed the ailment I guess he had.
1	I had a sore shoulder and went to physical therapy, but felt that it was not right to move my arm so much, so I filly asked if I could go to a specialist...it was a physicians assistant surgeon (I think) that I went to.  He told me to rest my shoulder for 30 days.  I did that, and it healed.  I also am convinced that proper diet is the best medicine.  My friend changed his diet and lowered his diabetes numbers to below diabetic readings.
1	My uncle was diagnosed with stage 4 melanoma. I had to quickly read up on the latest studies about immunotherapies and which ones may work for him.
1	I have a family history of heart disease.  My father had multiple heart attacks throughout his life so I was aware of how cholesterol levels affected him.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health is when I was sitting down with my parents and explaining to them the importance of changing their diet, and working towards living a healthier life. I had done a lot of research prior, and was able to explain to them the benefits of eating cleaner, and the benefits that it had on their bodies by cutting out junk food, and not going out to eat as much. I want them to live as long as possible and not be in a lot of pain when they're older. When I was talking everything through with them I felt sort of like an expert on the topic.
1	I demonstrated knowledge of my health issues when I was able to calculate how much insulin I needed for breakfast this morning. I'm a type-1 diabetic so I have to inject before I eat. For breakfast, I had oatmeal with a side of juice so I had to calculate the carb count for each, then input the correct amount of insulin.
1	When I was a teeger I once kept a woman alive using CPR long enough for the ambulance to arrive.
1	My mother was recently diagnosed with diabetes. I was able to plan her meals and lay out a diet plan for her that caused her numbers to fall within an acceptable range within  6 months.
1	I have done research into the science of nutrition so I am knowledgeable about how to read nutrition facts. As far as other areas I don't ahve a lot of knowledge other than what my doctor has told me about me specifically. Generally my numbers are in acceptable ranges so I don't put a lot of thought into it.
1	I was experiencing some medical issues and did some research about potential methods of treatment,  I asked my doctor if a particular treatment would be effective for me.  We decided together to pursue the treatment,
1	I had twisted my ankle in a basketball game. I went home, wrapped my ankle with ice, and kept it elevated. I made a doctor's appointment for the next day.
1	An experience I had was when my cousin started slurring speech and had trouble walking and had lost feeling in his arms. I realized he may be having a stroke from the symptoms. 
1	I have a regular check up every year to determine my levels of liver enzymes and cholesterol. I researched all results associated with my findings. 
1	A client came into our addiction treatment facility who was elderly and suddenly wasn't feeling well. I recognized that she said her arm was feeling numb, her face because to droop and she was having trouble with speech. I recognized these as signs of a stroke and called 911 to get her immediate assistance. 
-1	I am inexperienced in medical knowledge and do not have medical background in training
1	I was talking to my mom about Dold Trump's mental issues. I told her about his rcissistic persolity disorder and possible dementia. I think I read he was a textbook case of it.
1	When my father was diagnosed with a significant blockage of his carotid artery and was told it could not improve without surgery, I encouraged him to try a vegan diet.  After 6 months the blockage became insignificant even though he was told this was not possible by his doctor.  
-1	I eat healthy and I exercise regularly, because I understand that is best for my overall health.  
1	One time I had a friend that felt suddenly sick.  Given his symptoms it was likely food poisoning and told him he should rest and drink some fluids.
1	I have been handling all the paperwork and correspondence for my husband who is disabled for years. He has had as many as four doctors at once and had me do all his business with doctors.
-1	I just used basic reasoning and stats to figure out the chances. I guess some of it was knowledge I have just sort of learned as well
1	I found a lump in my testicle and went to a doctor.  He had it scanned and while we waited for results I did some research.  I was able to discuss my diagnosis with my doctor and understand what he was telling me and also offer counter theories as to what it might be or the cause.  In the end we were able to sort it out and I was satisfied that I understood where it was going instead of being scared and relying on everything he told me.
1	My legs were swelling for what seemed like no reason. I'm overweight. I thought about what I'd been eating g in the past several days, and I came to the conclusion that I had been eating way too much salt. So I switched to low sodium foods and drank a lot of water, and this greatly helped the problem. 
-1	I have given birth to two children. My youngest has had a host of health issues and we've seen several different specialists and had different therapies. My mom was an LPN and would talk about different things when we had questions. I also will research when there is something that is concerning or an issue I have. 
1	My parents and grandparents went through very serious medical events in their lives while I was around that exposed me to much of the medical world and its workings. Ive seen many procedures and medical suggestions to maintain life. Ive done much reading and research on many of their medical problems.
1	my girlfriend needed stitches for a cut on her hand this weekend. I guessed she needed 4 and they gave her 5, but I still feel the 5th stitch was unneeded. 
1	When my jaw was broken and we had to make decisions about the surgery
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge was when I had a blood panel done and was given just the number results rather than what they meant. I was able to obtain the needed information on my own to determine what those numbers meant for my A1C, triglycerides, and cholesterol. 
-1	Some of them are confusing and take math skills
1	When I was diagnosed with osteoporosis, I already knew a lot about the disease and available treatments. My mother has osteoporosis too and I had read a lot about it already. 
1	I had abnormal results on a thyroid test during pregncy.  Because I've been pregnt before and realized that there are issues in pregncy that can cause these results I didn't worry and chose to wait until after delivery to retest. The results were within a normal range. 
-1	Last year my sister started experiencing numbness in her limbs and then her finger joints swelled. She was content to ignore this but I went online to try and figure out what the problem might be. The symptoms fit for some kind of auto immune disease and with this information I was able to talk her into going to the doctor.
1	I am often a resource for friends and family members regarding health issues in their lives.  The most recent example would be helping a friend with lung issues learn how to do breathing exercises and teaching him how and when to do the exercises. 
1	I didn't really have first hand experiences, but I suppose I can say that I am currently in the process of losing weight, and I have tried to count my calorie intake. So reading the calorie and nutritiol labels and counting my intake has given me some experiences.
1	My aunt was diagnosed with Crohn's disease which affects the lining of the digestive tract. Since I have an interest in health, I am familiar with this disease. I was able to help her understand some of the concepts of new diets that the doctor recommended to her. After her diagnosis I continued to help her prepare meals that would be easier for her to digest. 
-1	Military, Hospital dealings with myself and family, my significant other is a RN at a major hospital. 
-1	
-1	My heart rate was racing and I was rapidly dropping weight and always hungry. In about 3 weeks I had close to 15 pounds. I felt very anxious like I was always on edge and I had hives. I made an appointment with my doctor and he diagnosed Grave's Disease. Since my diagnosis, I have followed my doctor's instruction for medication to the letter and was stabilized within months after treatment. I adjusted my diet and began exercising more to mage the shifts in my hormones.
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with Alzheimers. I started to notice things like she accused my sister of stealing the towels. We of course left at this and thought she is just old and could not remember. I noticed she did not sleep at night, but more in the day. I started putting all of these things together and started researching it. I found out she had sundowners and we than got her tested for dementia which she did have.
1	I recently had my gallbladder out and I knew it was my gallbladder even before we ran any tests. Reading about the location of pain, symptoms, and severity I was pretty spot on with the diagnosis. 
1	I have studied biological sciences in undergraduate. Many of my courses were involved with nursing applications and other medical knowledge. I have studied statistics for 3 years.
1	I am a little overweight. My doctor offered to write me a script for appetite suppressant. I already knew about the drug, but declined the script because the side effects were not what I would want to potentially experience in order to just drop a few pounds. 
1	As I stated before, I work in clinical research...diabetes, obesity, cardiology, statistics, etc...
1	I've already addressed this.  The most profound, persol, experience was in 1987 when I contracted Lyme Disease.  Very few medical professiols were familiar with the virus and it took almost a year to be diagnosed.  
1	My father had prostate cancer and I had a case of prostatitis around the age of 40. I requested a PSA test at age 42. My doctor said that this was young but because of my family history and my own trouble with my prostate, he said that the PSA test was acceptable in my case. I understood about the high rate of false positives in this case, so I knew that if I had a high PSA it didn't necessarily mean I had cancer. 
1	I went to the doctor thinking I had bronchitis due to my symptoms and the length of time I had had the illness. The doctor confirmed that was what I had and prescribed me medicine.
-1	When a family member was diagnosed with cancer, I was their primary care-giver.
1	I have successfully been able to help friends having bad chemical reactions from the synergy of 2 chemicals. After identifying this we could then help them balance back out and get to a normal state. I was lucky to have simple education on the synergy of different things.
1	Living this life has turally made me knowledgable of health issues and this medical industry at many levels.
1	I grew up with a nurse for a mother and am used to being around nurses and doctors. When my son was a baby, he had a relatively high fever and was pulling at his ears. He was crying and generally fussy. I had a hunch he had ear infections so I took him to urgent care and sure enough he had double ear infections. 
-1	My mother had breast cancer and got to a point where she couldn't care for herself.  I had to take care of her meds and appointment etc.  I think I gained valuable knowledge while caring for my ailing mother.
1	Reading about it online, or watching TV shows that explore health topics. 
1	When taking anti-biotics I make sure to take them as prescribed as I am aware of the negative outcome of not doing so. I also take pro-biotics in order to make up for the damage that they do after. I can calculate my basal metabolic rate, activity levels, and accurately predict how many calories I need to eat on a daily basis to gain, lose or maintain weight.
1	I don't know.  I raised five boys, so there were always childhood illnesses that came up.  I think I was pretty good at determining what was minor (like a cold) and something that needed medical intervention (like a broken bone or the croup).
1	When I was a teeger I was on a ski trip.  I broke my thumb going over a large jump.  I decided not to leave the ski trip because I felt that nothing would repair the thumb and I would miss 3 days of skiing.  When I filly got home, I went to the doctor.  He told me there was nothing he could do other than put a cast around my arm to prevent me from moving my wrist and upsetting the fracture.  I'm not sure if this is what you're talking about but there you go.
-1	I was hospitalized with a pulmory embolism
1	I have been using diet and exercise to reduce my blood sugar levels to reduce the risk of Type II Diabetes.  By totally removing carbohydrates from two out of three meals every day, and only allowing myself to consume sweets one day each week, I was able to significantly improve my A1C rating 1.3 points over a six week period, and loose 8 lbs.
1	I constantly look stuff up. And as a diabetic i have to stay up on all the govt misinformation about my disease. 
1	My mother was having dizzy spells after she moved to a house at high altitude in Colorado. I told her that her blood pressure medication might need to be adjusted due to the altitude change. 
1	In college, I took a course, as an economics major, I took a course that was intended for premed students in how to read articles from medical jourls. I did well in the course, although there were clearly gaps in my knowledge because there elements of basic biology, like the brain-blood barrier, that I was almost completely unfamiliar with.
1	In my daily life I have to monitor my blood sugar. I have also done extensive persol research on the effects of body mass and weight on joints do to arthritis. 
1	I have high blood pressure. i take beta block and a high blood pressure pill to lower my heart rate and pressure so that its 130/70. I also was sudding to be a med student but quit and went to the army 
-1	I have some education in medical related classes. 
1	I chose to get a flu shot because it had little risk of side effects but provided high protection against the flu. I thought the risk/reward was favorable.
1	My sister has type 1 diabetes. One day she was feeling sick and only thought it was the flu. I believed it was a problem with here diabetes so I went over her house to find her in bed and almost unresponsive. I rushed her to the emergency room and we found out it was a symptom of her diabetes.
1	When my son was small, he accidentally fell and bumped his head on a chair in my living room. It looked terrible, but I knew the risks and signs of a concussion. Because of this, I was able to determine that we did not need to take him to the hospital at that time, and instead kept a very close eye on him for a while. 
1	I am allergic to sulfa drugs. I am able to tell my doctor and people treating me about this each time I go, so I don't get sick.
1	I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues whenever I spoke to family or friends about my daughter's condition as well as when she was initially transferred from Children's Hospital to the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota. We pretty much had repeat everything we learned from doctors at Children's to those at the Mayo.
1	Due to a school project I had done on Strep Throat, I knew immediately that I had it, due to the telltale spots on the tongue. I ended up getting strep throat every year for five or six years straight, so I became very good at determining when I was about to have strep throat again.
1	I went to school to obtain my Emergency Medical Technician certification. While, I am not medically trained in the hospital setting as doctors are, I learned so much that helps me in my every day life and being a parent. 
1	I've been sick with the flu a few times in my life and I knew what to do without the need to visit a doctor. I knew to get plenty of rest and drink fluids and watch my fever temperature. I was also aware of the symptoms to watch for in case it developed into something more serious.
1	I had severe pain in my side of my abdomen. I was concerned it was apendicitis but i was incorrect.
1	My brother was seriously ill and non-communicative while in the hospital being treated. I was able to discuss his condition with his (multiple) physicians and was able to understand what they said. As a result I was able, along with his wife, to make treatment decisions on his part.
1	Growing up with a mother that was in and out of hospitals for lupus. and spending time with her at NIH when I was child. As well as being the main care giver for my father as he dealt with cancer. 
1	My mother was having slurred speech and muscle weakness. I recognized the signs of a stroke and called an ambulance. It turned out she was in fact having a stroke.
1	I can't remember anything.
-1	
1	I had a gestatiol diabetes , which changed my outlook towards health and lifestyle.I started to learn more and more about healthy living.
1	Tough question. I was umpring a baseball game and got sick.  Everyone thought I just had heat stroke and needed to rest.  I knew something was majorly wrong with me. Turn out I was right because I ended up in a coma for a week.  I was lucky because instead of going home (alone) I went to stay at my moms house for the night.  She's the one who found me passed out. 
-1	I knew my father in law had a stroke because of the way he was laying on the floor and that there was no point in trying to get him to tell us what was wrong.  If I wasn't there my idiot sister in law would've sat there for who knows how long trying to get him to talk before calling 911.
-1	When I had to go to the sleep specialist and was able to describe my issues in great detail.
1	By my third child, I had experienced so many fevers and stomach bugs that I felt pretty confident in treating my children without needing to call the pediatrician.
1	I had a pretty serious nosebleed. I knew to apply an ice pack to the bridge of my nose to cause blood clotting.
-1	I discovered an ulcer in my stomach. AS a former nurse, I knew that the symptoms were a burning and stubbing pain in my lower abdomen as well as fatigue, low appetite and stress. My diagnosis was confirmed by a gastroenterology doctor.
1	College courses, sick relatives, persol health issues
1	My face and jaw were in pain. I knew I had a terrible sinus infection.
1	I had a peComa tumor growing on my kidney. It was large, they removed it, but I had to see an oncologist to talk about regrowth. I was able to discuss the growth pattern and mitotic cycle of the cells
1	My wife became extremely ill when scratched by the dog. She had a very bad allergic reaction. i had to discuss several options with the doctors because the medicines where causing very bad side effects
1	When I found out I had a tumor on my ovary. I found out that taking birth control could help reduce my risk of cysts turning into tumors.
1	SEEING MY PARENTS DIE FROM THEIR DISEASES MADE ME SEE THINGS FROM A DIFFERENT POINT OF VIEW.  I SAW THINGS IN A MEDICAL WORLD THAT MADE NO SENSE AND HAD NO CURE.  
1	Recently I was feeling heart palpitations out of nowhere. I had never felt them before in my life and I got concerned about it. In the end, after doing some research, I concluded that I needed to shed a couple of pounds and quit drinking caffeine. Once I did this the heart palpitations stopped.
1	I don't know how to answer that question because I have always relied on the doctor to explain medical issues with me.  I don't know enough about them to make my own decisions.
1	Just being around family with health issues I have heard from doctors and seen medical charts.
1	I was with my grandfather when he was in the hospital and the nurses and doctors were talking to him about his condition, causes, and treatments. I understood what was being said and help articulate it better to my grandfather on parts he had not understood.
1	I have had to go through more than one MRI. By the second one, I knew more what to expect than i did the first time. 
-1	So far I have not had any health or medical issues. I have been lucky. Every person is different and their experience is different. 
1	I possess the BRC2 gene that increases my risk of breast and ovarian cancer. If I have certain surgeries, it dramatically reduces my risk of getting both cancers by the time I'm 70.
1	I had hypercalcemia. They removed one of my parathryoid glands. I had cervical dysplasia and a cone biopsy. My mom had thyroid cancer. I am anemic. I have high blood pressure. My mom had a brain aneurysm they coiled. My twin sister had a ruptured appendix, a bowel obstruction and a fibroid removed. Lots of family and friends with illnesses and surgeries.
-1	I was really sick for awhile and when I first started to notice things I went to the internet before calling a doctor I didn't want to go because I was in a panic over nothing. So I put in all the issues and came up with three possibilities. I called and made an appointment and when I went I said I think I have could have these issues. I listed all the little things and they did tests and it came out that I was right with one of them.
1	when I was told I had high cholesterol, I already knew what kinds of foods to include and exclude from my diet to lower my cholesterol. I changed my diet and there was a big difference.
-1	I am not really good with medi, I know what I need to take for pain and which ones do the best job, there are a lot of drugs that can do a lot of different things ,like my back I take proxen it works like a anit flamtory 
1	A friend of mine had to take medication, but did not understand what it was for. His doctor did not do a good job informing him. I used his illness and medication me as research points, and was able to learn about and then inform my friend of the details of his illness and his medication.
1	I really can't think of anything except for interacting with others when they come to me with questions about their health. I guess, talking to my dentist about my teeth issues shows I can demonstrate that. I know the vocabulary for all areas of the mouth and details about procedures, tools dentist use, etc... So, talking to my dentist. 
1	When my grandfather was being given metformin by his previous doctor and I questioned him on when he had done a glucose test to determine that he needed it.
1	I learned a lot about healthcare when I was pregnt with twins. I was also diabetic as well. Through all my appointments and research I learned a lot.
-1	I had to learn about pilonitus cysts. I had reoccuring cysts for the past ten years. According to doctors there is nothing that can be done but to remove the cysts, surgically to avoid infection or just let the cysts be. But, upon doing my own research, I have found that cysts are created by the rubbing or irritation of hair and sweat glands. So, I can fix the problem by either removing my sweat glands or permanently removing my hair.
1	When I scraped up my leg real bad.  I relied on my knowledge to first clean out the wound and then be able to treat it with medicine and bandage it up until it fully healed again.
1	
1	I knew that eating healthy and exercise will lead to a healthy life. Eat lemons, eat fruits and veggies more often, and no fatty or meats .
1	In the past year I have had to routinely go for screenings and ultrasounds for thyroid and para-thyroid cancer due to nodules being found on both glands.
1	I had to explain to someone at work that the nutrition label does not describe the totality of the container, but a serving of the food within that container. She did not understand that the nutrition label describes the serving size and not the container size.
-1	My friend sometimes asked me if they get cold through rapid change of temperature like going from cold to heat environment and vice versa. I told them that it's not true because you only get infected because of virus and not because of temeprature.
1	When someone that I knew exhibited symptoms of something, I knew what it was. I knew this because I had experienced the same thing in the past. I was able to help them and let them know what to expect.
1	Several years ago, I woke up with severe pain in my lower right side.  I could barely walk.  I suspected it was my appendix.  My husband took me to the hospital where I ended up having emergency surgency to remove my appendix.
1	It was after I had had a stent put in for a heart attack.  About a month after i was released from the hospital, I felt very bad and extremely lethargic. My blood pressure was very low.  I felt that one of my medicines was making me feel that way and should be adjusted.  I went to my cardiologist and told him.  he took me off of one of the medicines and I quickly recovered to feeling like my old self.
1	I successfully completed my EMT certification and medically screened volunteer blood donors for over ten years. 
1	When I had to have a test done to check for aortic aneurysms. I understood what the test was and how it would be able to tell me if I had one or not.
-1	One time my friend was choking on a bunch of gummy candy he thought he could swallow all at once. I had to perform the Heimlich maneuver on him. He was very lucky he did not die. 
-1	An acquaintance of mine wasn't feeling well at work,complaining of shortness of breath,and was thinking she had strained herself,and had a hernia. After abut 4 days,I convinced her to see a doctor,telling her it sounded like heart problems,considering I live with CHF...She saw the doctor,and turns out she had had a silent heart attack,
1	I have been an athlete my whole life. I learned a lot about health from physical therapy from sports injuries.
-1	I have been very ill twice before in my life and thought I would die, I have seen many doctors in my life as well bot my parents who are no longer with me suffered terribly and I was with them, i.e. trips to the hospitals and conversations with doctors
1	I was sick for a long time when I was in 9th grade, it was like a cold that never stopped, I kept coughing and my breathing was gurgly I guess, I had a lot of mucus. I was diagnosed with bronchitis. A few years later I had the same symptoms come back so I knew I probably had bronchitis again, went to the doctor and was diagnosed again with bronchitis.
-1	I took care of my Grandmother for a few years, and accompanied her to doctor's appointments. I helped explain her medical information to her. 
1	a lot of people around me have mental health issues so I have done a lot of research
1	I worked in a doctor's office and currently in medical research. 
1	For breakfast I ate a ba and oatmeal with dried cherries, raisins, apple chunks, cinmon, sunflower seeds, and peanut butter. For lunch I ate veggie stir fry with quinoa. For dinner I had white rice and black beans with diced tomato, cilantro, avocado, and cheese (which isn't the healthiest choice but damn if it doesn't taste good).
-1	My father had a stroke a year ago and I was able to identify the signs and get him to the hospital
1	I had an ectopic pregncy 3 years ago and from a previous one I had before that I knew the signs and symptoms. I knew that I would most likely need my other fallopian tube removed. 
1	I worked as a certified nursing assistant through college. I worked in the newborn unit, and learned some medical knowledge through experience. 
1	Same answer as the first answers, my mother's cancer. I keep meticulous notes, read medical jourls, question our health team very closely, and follow message boards a bit obsessively. I quit my job to deal with this. I live it.
1	I once was on the scene of a car crash in the middle of the night. It was on a small road and there was no one there except the people in the crashed car and my husband and I. The woman in the crashed car was bleeding profusely from what seemed to be a deep wound and I tried to slow the flow of blood by applying pressure on the wound and calming her while we were waiting for emergency responders. 
1	When I first started college I was a nursing student
1	I normally look up health information on website. There are a lot of credible source of medical information in print or on line. 
1	I am a very active person who watches their diet, I have never had a major health issue or anything beyond a cold or flu. 
1	There was a time that I had a mark on my body. It was burning and after a couple of days it began to eat away at my skin. I researched it and eventually had to go to the doctor. After researching it I knew that I had a spider bite and had to go in.
1	
-1	after being told I have diabetes and learning from both my doctor and reading website, I was better able to understand and mage my diabetes. My diabetes is now what my doctor calls controlled diabetes. 
-1	When I had allergies and I had to look up online what can help treat it and went to the store and got an over the counter product that can help.
1	I'm not sure how to answer this. Unless you mean that I've always been able to understand my own health issues and discuss treatments and issues with the doctors without any assistance. 
-1	My grandfather has diabetes, and there were time I had to take care of him and make him meals and give him insulin shots. I would have to follow strict guidelines for his care. I had to do research and learn a lot.
-1	My daughter had strep throat. She had all the symptoms including blisters on her tonsils. I was able to call the dr and make an appointment and inform them what I thought and when I got there the first thing they did was swab her throat. So it was time saving too.
1	I lost my daughter when I was 20. She passed away from SIDS. My mother has a lot of heart and vascular problems as well.
-1	I always get a mammogram.  I did have a false positives done to me a few years ago.  I needed to retake the mammogram , and everything was okay.
-1	There was this one time I was able to explain my medical condition to my doctor and he said I knew more than he did. 
-1	Five years ago I had a hearth atact tahs when I stared taking care of my health. I started to eat right excriseing daily no salt , trying not to stress at all.
1	My son had a rash that we thought was an allergic reaction. When Bedryl didn't work, we went to the doctor. He thought it was erythema Multiforme. Through my own internet research, the rash was more likely urticaria Multiforme. We told him later and he agreed.
1	I was living with my grandmother who needed assistance taking her medicine. I had to read the instructions for each prescription in order to give her the medicine at the correct times and the correct amounts.
-1	I was having back pain and knew that I would need to go to the doctors and that there was probably something wrong with my back that would not be curable passed off of research that I did online and that I would probably need to do ohysical therapy and exercise reguarly and when I went to the doctors it turned out I was right and ended up having to do physical therapy and was given a set of exercises to do everyday.
-1	When I had a baby I read books on  the delivery procedure. I learned all of the steps to the delivery.
1	I do not know. I've had a few medical issues in life but have overcome or live with the consequences of them today, so I rarely think about 'what I know'. I don't know what that means, 'demonstrate'....to who? I don't need to demonstrate to anyone, I just need to take care of myself.
1	I went through secondary infertility. I had to learn lots of statistics regarding my chances of conceiving again, as well as the different methods and treatments I should try and their corresponding levels of success.
-1	I had a mammogram years ago. It showed a possible cyst or lump in the breast. The cost of the 2nd scan was $650, which was out of pocket. Turned out that I did not have cancerous cysts, but it cost me quite a bit for proof.
1	I was very flushed and was having a reaction to something I ate. I realized that there were nitrates in my meat that were causing the reaction. I wasn't panicked because I knew the cause and to avoid them in the future.
1	Having my spouse diagnosed with diabetes and understanding that that was an increase in sugar in the blood.  Knowing that the pancreas is either not producing enough insulin, not recognizing the insulin produced or not producing any insulin.  Further understanding the need to monitor the diet for total carbs that are ingested during a meal/day to keep blood sugars stable and within the range the doctor set for him.  Also knowing that he is at increased risk for eye problems (needing yearly eye exam), wound healing problems (need to have frequent foot inspections for non healing sores), rel and cardiac issues.
1	I have Fibromyalgia. I diagnosed myself by putting together all of my symptoms, speaking to a relative that has it, researching it on the internet, and speaking with my doctor.
1	I helped my parents deal with their doctors and medical issues
1	I had to make the decision to not resuscitate my mother after her illness. She had kidney failure and it had affected her mental state. She came out of it, but I knew there would be a continuous decline because of the damage done and the chances of a conscious life were little to none.
-1	Had 3 surgeries and I am a nurse.
1	One example is when I learned I had thyroid problems.  My mother has Hashimoto's disease which I learned is genetic.  I was starting to experience a lot of odd symptoms like dry brittle hair, constipation, dry skin and being cold all the time.  I did some research on the internet and learned that I may have thyroid problems and recalled that my mother had the same problems.  So I went to the doctor and had it checked out and sure enough I had the same disease.  
-1	During my previous physical checkup, I came prepared with many questions, after looking up the info online. When I asked my doctor about these questions, he said I was correct.
1	I went to the doctor with an issue that I had been having.  Because of research I had done on my own time I was able to tell the doctor what I thought was going on.  This lined up with further tests the doctor did and he was able to give me a diagnosis and treatment because of the information provided.
1	My grandfather passed away from cancer years ago. I discussed cancer and the effects of it on the human body with my parents. To this day I try to talk to them about the causes and origins of cancer with them.
1	I have dealt with depression for a lot of my life and it wasn't taken seriously by my family doctor in my teege years.  As a result, I did a lot of research on my own and did what I could to cope.
-1	when I fell off my bike. I knew to apply alcohol and hydrogen peroxide.
1	I was having severe lung pain, saw 3 different doctors who just brushed it off as nothing. I knew it was a real problem so I saw a 4th dr who I demanded to do further testing. That dr filly found the problem after I had to practically beg for further testing.
-1	I had severe migraines years ago.  I noticed that certain foods would trigger them  more so than others. I found that by not eating certain foods, I could reduce them and not have to take daily medication.
1	I have studied different foods and vitamins that are beneficial for my body. At one time I had high cholesterol. I began taking a prescription for my condition but I decided I did not like the long term side effects. So I decided to take my cholesterol down the tural way. I learned a lot along the way.
-1	When I was a teeger my Mother cut her hand while cooking. I immediately found something to make a tourniquet to stop the bleeding and we got her to the emergency right away. The doctor asked who did that and I said it was me. She commended me for taking the right steps to stop the bleeding and cover the wound. This demonstrated that I had knowledge that I had learned in first aid.
1	I honestly cannot think of an experience where I've had the opportunity to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues, outside of explaining tests or procedures that I have had.
1	I would say every time I get a cold or the flu(rare) that I demonstrate my knowledge of health issues. I actually try to avoid taking any medicines unless its necessary. I think the foods we eat play an important role in our health. So when I do get sick I know that my body needs lots of rest and fluids. I'll take some time off when this happens and I'll get lots of bed rest. I have a juicer and a Vitamix and I'll make lots of fruit and veggie juices to beat the cold.
1	I had a pretty high fever and I knew to go to the doctor so I was able to get treated for strep throat instead of letting it turn into to something else. 
1	I was talking with my parents about issues of diet and nutrition. We were talking about how the medical community has recommended low-fat, high carbohydrate diets for patients with heart problems or at risk for heart attacks for the past 45 years or so, but the evidence that this diet has been effective for reducing heart problems (or for losing weight, for that matter) is poor. They agreed with me, and we further discussed how cutting out sugar and reducing your carbohydrate intake while increasing dietary fat is likely to be the most healthy diet.
1	I am triage/first aid certified, and on one occasion I was able to help someone who was had been in a car accident.  They were in shock and bleeding and had broken their leg.  I was able to help the person out by helping them get out of shock and then by helping them out of their vehicle to safety and making sure there was nothing at else seriously wrong with them until proper medical attention arrived.
1	I was having severe headaches,  not migraine but pretty intense. I looked up probable causes so I could go to the doctor armed with proper questions and description. It was sinusitis and was cleared up pretty quick. 
1	My husband had to have major surgery a few years ago.  He was in the hospital twice for a week each time.  I studied up on all the factors around his illness, and how to help him recover when he got home.  The doctors were very helpful and caring.  
1	This is a tough one.  I have a son and there are times when I have to figure out what is bothering him and how to provide him with relief.  This is one area where my previous experiences and knowledge help me.
1	i had gestatiol diabetes, I had to monitor my blood sugars and eat to keep those levels down, to ensure that my child and I stayed healthy. Both were born without any side effects from the diabetes because I kept myself under control.
1	I had a burning sensation in my esophagus that lasted for days.  I called my (then) doctor.  He prescribed me something over the phone without seeing me and said it would be ready at the drug store. When I went to the drug store, there was nothing there.  I trusted my instincts, did the research on the medicine he was about to prescribe (which I would have had to take consistently for GERD).  I looked up tural altertives to this problem.  I had arugula salads, and 100% pure aloe vera juice, and the problem was gone in a day, forever. Things like this is why I don't trust doctors entirely.
1	Nothing in particular, just life experience.
1	Understanding that high TG was due to my intake of sugar, decreasing my intake of sugar by avoiding soft drinks and switching to black coffee, resulting in a 60% drop in my TG and a lowering of my blood pressure.
1	I read news on WebMD website . It is a great source of information
-1	I work in the medical field and deal with patients on a daily basis.  I demonstrate the use of health and medical knowledge everyday.
1	I've suffered several sports injuries and have been able to recover from them quickly by knowing when to rest, and how to best treat the injury.
1	I suppose having had the flu throughout my childhood has shown me when I should panic, or when it is just general symptoms of the flu.  So this (very) basic knowledge lets me know that I just have the flu.  Altertely if the symptoms were different or more severe that I'm used to, it would be indicative that maybe I should look further into it, and perhaps seek medical professiol assistance.
1	A friend had been given antibiotic eye drops for her son's pink eye. She told me that in the past they had worked well, but this time they were not working as quickly. I asked if her son had recently had a cold, and she said yes. I told her that some pink eye is viral, in which case the eye drops will not help.
1	In cross country I felt tired and my legs were heavy. I knew something was wrong. I went to the doctor and I had iron anemia.
1	I had 2 heart attacks so I learned a lot about cholesterol. I did the diet thing and exercise and it made no difference at all in my numbers. So I take meds. They work. So I learned about hereditary stuff. No much you can do but take your meds.
1	I was hearing a lot of complaints from my brother about how his stomach was bothering him. I convinced him that he should go to a doctor and have it checked out even though he couldn't afford the cost of treatment. He found out that he has a stomach ulcer and now he is doing much better from eating carefully.
-1	looking up things on webmd
1	"I always take care of my fiancee when she gets sick, giving her the right medicines to improve soon. I have no particular experiences to talk about but I have basic knowledge of what to do if you get hurt, if you feel sick, if you feel ""weird"", if you choke or stop breathing."
1	My daughter was in the NICU when she was born. After a couple days, I was able to completely understand her condition and explain it to others that were not familiar. 
1	I started to pay more attention to the nutrition facts once I knew about my family's risk of high blood pressure.
1	When I had health issues and needed blood testing, I understood what the levels and recommended values meant. I also understand the need to eat less carbohydrates for my health and how to find them on a package.
-1	My mom was a two time cancer patient and I was her caretaker
-1	I was having issues with chronic headaches and had been taking magnesium to try to help. It was not working and I remembered successful magnesium absorption is largely based on amount of Vit D in body. I went to doctor and got prescription vit D and solved the problem.
-1	I worked in a spa sometime in my life and had the ability to take blood pressure.  The mager asked me if I would take his as he wasn't feeling well.  I took it for him and it was high.  We immediately sent him to his doctor.
1	As a child I had sinus and ear infections almost monthly which led me to doctor visits very often. I believe I kept getting them because they over prescribed me antibiotics and lowered their effectiveness. Since I have been on my own I have never been to a doctor once. When I feel like I'm getting sick I rest and take vitamins and minerals. If I do get sick I just rest and get through it.
1	I have an Associates Degree in Occupatiol Therapy and I worked as a therapist for 16 years.  Although I no longer work in the medical field, my years of experience have given me greater knowledge of medical issues than the general public.
-1	I have been diagnosed with a lot of health issues that taught me about them. I used to have a lot of different issues going on, and I was on a lot of medications that I learned a lot about as well. This taught me most of what I know about health and issues.
1	I've taken a few health classes over the years - mainly in high school. Taking tests in those classes helped me to remember and establish the things I've learned through those classes, especially when I had to do research papers for those classes. It was my freshman year of high school, and I didn't save the work I was doing for much longer after the school year was over (my laptop at the time broke down by the time I went into college anyways), so I can't recall it exactly now, but I remember acing the course.
-1	When I was having chest pains, I knew it was because of the birth control pill. Because birth control can cause you to be prone to blood clots, which is a early symptom.
1	I went to the beach with my best friend.  He flatly refused to use sunscreen, despite my advice that he do so.  He ended up with a bad sunburn, while I, who used sunscreen, did not.  
-1	Once I was having problems with murder blood pressure. It would go up more after I checked it. After reading online and seeing my Dr, turns out to be anxiety. So I stopped checking my blood pressure because it was making it worse.
1	I demonstrated knowledge of health issues when I identified symptoms I was feeling as needing medical attention. I don't generally think about or discuss problems, so listening to my body I think shows an intuitive knowledge, even if I don't have the capacity to completely break down the problem's cause or even the solution.
1	I don't have a specific moment showing my knowledge of a health or medical issue.
1	I've discussed depression and medicines with various people over the years. I've taken health classes in high school. I look up various things on webmd.
-1	I have a lot of nurses in my family.
1	I took a human bio course and it taught me a lot about health and medical studies. Before taking the class, I didn't really know much of anything, but being able to take the class and learn about different diseases and problems was nice.
1	I was in the emergency room with a heart rate of 180. The physicians and nurses did not know what was wrong and I had to give them the me of my condition and an actual physical handout about it so they could properly treat me. I filled them in while they frantically googled my sources. 
1	I realized the medication for acne i was on wasnt working so i kept looking for a better solution and foind it eventually with help of a doctor.
1	I used to work for a company that made glucometers doing customer service. So I have no medical training or expertise, but I often talked to people with diabetes and they would tell me a lot about their lives. I had a family member with no insurance who was telling me that she was having some symptoms that she thought might be diabetes. I immediately went and bought her a glucometer, and her blood sugar was way above normal. I recommended that she go to the hospital emergency room because I knew that level would be a huge deal, even for someone diagnosed with diabetes. 
-1	Persolly my many health issues. As well as being a ER Unit Secretary in my younger days. Plus I like medical stuff to an extent.
-1	I had a friend who suffered from depression. I told him to fix his diet and remove meat. Few months later, he started feeling normal.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when i found out that myaubnt ad cancer and i really started looking into the treatmentsd and causes of it.
1	When I had excema, I researched the condition and became aware of the signs, symptoms, and remedies.
1	My mom has battled breast cancer twice and my dad has fought squamous cell carcinoma. I've been in and out of hospitals with them for most of my entire life.
-1	I took a health class in college and we had to present information about the heath topic we were assigned.
1	Most of my experience with health or medical issues comes from directly interacting with my doctors. I have never had any serious medical emergencies, but for illnesses and other medical issues, I usually go right to the doctor and try to apy attention to what they say about the illness, cause and treatment. 
1	Researching a diet that would eble me to lose weight, lower my blood sugar ( I was pre-diabetic) and lower my triglycerides significantly.  Being able to decide on a ketogenic diet after careful research demonstrated my knowledge of health issues.
1	I am very susceptible to colds and sinus infections in the winter months; I usually will not go in to see the doctor unless the condition lasts for more than two weeks or gets worse.  I also never insist on antibiotics if the doctor does not think that they are necessary. 
1	I checked my blood pressure at wal mart and found that it was high.  I went to a doctor and was prescribed medication.  I read the information given to me by the doctor and paid attention to the possible side effects and things I shouldn't take or do while taking my bp medications.
1	A few years ago I sustained an energy after doing a workout that involved weightlifting. Based on the pain that I was experiencing and the sorts of movements that aggravated the pain, I was able to correctly deduce that the pain was caused by tendonitis. I went to a physical therapist and he concluded that my hypothesis was correct.
1	My niece was walking barefoot in our yard and stepped on a rusty il. I told her she would need a tetanus show, so I drove her to the local clinic.
1	Dealing with an immediate family members diagnosis and treatment for breast cancer.  Learning about the options and reading the relevant literature.
1	I have been a caregiver for the elderly for 6 years. I have had to learn about their medical issues. I have to take their vitals, prepare their meals, and give them their appropriate medication.
1	My most recent involvement with medical professiols was with the births of my daughters. Everyone was very kind, professiol, and happy to help with whatever questions we had. Otherwise, I have more or less been able to stay healthy and not have to visit doctors often.
-1	I had a severe car accident.I got crack in my spil cord.My doctors told me everything about the issue and also well informed me about two ways of treatment either no surgery only bed rest for 6 months or surgery with 75% chances of complete recovery.
-1	Usually, I am quite healthy.  A mild headache or temporary ache or pain in my body here and there.  A couple of tylenol and I'm fine.  This is how I know.  I've made it for 48 yrs this way.
1	seemed like most of it was just calculating results. seemed easy
1	My teege daughter recently changed endocrinologists and as the new doctor was asking us questions I realized how much I learned about diabetes over the years. 
1	I am currently pregnt, so I have been doing a lot of research online about possible things that could affect my pregncy and make it more complicated. One thing is high blood pressure and how it is linked to pre-eclampsia. I read about how if you have high blood pressure then they will likely do a urine test to see if there is protein in it, which is a sign of pre-eclampsia. I can have high blood pressure sometimes, so it was no surprise to me when the midwife ordered a urine test to see if there was protein present. 
1	I was told to take a certain prescription for a condition, I was able to tell what I was supposed to take and how it would affect my persol health. 
1	I have had a benign heart condition since 2009, I have dealt with many doctors and specialists since. It was eventually decided my condition was not life threatening and benign and nothing to worry about.  I have become very knowledgeable in medical terminology.
1	I have a mammogram that was a false positive. My doctor ordered very vigorous tests. Although I was concerned, I felt pretty strongly it was a false positive because I regularly check my breasts and pay attention to changes in my body. As it turned, I was correct. 
-1	I was able to tell my friend what to expect when having a c-section. I had had one so I knew about the recovery and had a few tips and ideas to share also. 
1	I grew up relatively average compared to my peers, then from high school I started excercising a little, join some sport clubs, then in college, I was fortute to meet some people who are very good at body training, control, training, these include trainers, athletes, martial artist, yogis, so I for a period of 6 years, I had been active and study about health, bodies, and I found how to get my body in good shape in a healthy tural way,  and I also worked at nutriol center where I learn alot about supplement indsutries, as well as nutriol content and suplement, tual medicine as well as modern medicine, and since then, I have been rarely if ever gotten sick. except for some occasion where I need antibiotic due to bacterial which I have to buy some medicine.
-1	When i had surgery, i had to be in a cast and if i did not take care of myself i would have had to have surgery all over again. 
1	I went to get my blood taken. I told the nurse that everyone usually has trouble getting blood out of my arm and they have to use the butterfly needle and take it out of my hand. The nurse didn't believe me and she tried to get blood out of my arm 3 times before giving up and getting it out of my hands. 
-1	My dad had many heart attacks before he died.  I learned to recognize the signs that he was having a heart attack, early in life.  I then went and took First Aid to make sure I'd be able to help if we were every out together and he needed help.  Well, he ended up having a heart attack (his last major one) in the car with me, my mom, my husband and daughter.  I watched his behavior change and when I saw what was happening, I reached forward in the car and pushed the stick shift to neutral.  I then ran out of the car to the closest store and screamed for them to call 911 for an ambulance because my dad was having a massive heart attack.  I then got back to the car, tried to get his arms raised and undid his tie.  He couldn't respond and was having major difficulty breathing and I made sure he hadn't swallowed his tongue and gave him mouth to mouth until the ambulance came.  He did die later on that night despite everything that was attempted to save him. 
-1	I started to get a constant tickle in my throat and I made an appointment because I knew that something was coming...I thought it was bronchitis, but it was strep throat.
1	I'm a recovering alcoholic, and I've been sober for a significant period of time. At one point, a doctor wanted to give me a prescription for a benzodiazepine. Because I'm aware of how similar benzodiazepines are to alcohol, I refused the prescription, for I felt it was too risky.
1	I was diagnosed with kidney stones 25 years ago. I can now recognize when a kidney stone attack is coming on by paying attention to the symptoms my body gives such as blood in the urine and change of stools.
-1	I don't really have any persol experiences other when my children were sick. I gut used gut gut feelings about when to call the doctor.
1	When my father was going through the process of being diagnosed with alzheimer's disease, I had to attend every doctor's appointment with him and my mother because they couldn't understand a lot the information they were getting.  The doctor felt most confident talking directly to me and having me try to relay the information to my parents in terms they understand.  My parents also relied on me to help them make the decisions regarding my father's care.
-1	I was shown ultrasound images of my lower back due to chronic lower back pain, was given options regarding addressing the back pain and/or it's symptoms and I ultimately chose micro back surgery.
1	I haven't had many experiences that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. The closest I've probably come to having an experience like that is that when someone I know talks about a medical condition, I usually know what it is already and they don't need to explain. I also have some basic first aid knowledge if that counts, and I've used it a couple of times during my life.
-1	I have a best friend whose son has epilepsy. I have been through the ins and outs with her of this disease. From his earliest fits I have educated myself on the topic to help my friend. It has taught me considerably about medicine in general.
1	Twice in my life, my doctors have put me on medications that were bad for me.  One, I was trying to get pregnt and she told me Accupril would be safe for that.  I had asked her at least a dozen times.  I found out that was not true and stopped the meds and a month later got pregnt. The other time I was given lisinopril and told it would protect my kidneys.  My kidney function basically tanked over the next 9 months going from 99% to 43%. I did some research and found out other people were experiencing the same thing.  I stopped the drug on my own again and in 6 months my rel function was back up to 80%.
1	I guess this survey. And my knowledge is awful because I had to guess on the last two questions.
1	The other day my kid passed out and we took her to the ER. They were telling us it could possibly be a seizure which I clearly knew that she had just fainted. Thank goodness it was not a seizure.
1	When I had appendicitis, I was able to recognize possible symptoms and get myself to the hospital before it burst.
1	When I was at college, I began having severe symptoms of a UTI. However, I was not able to see a doctor regularly. I started drinking lots of fluids and cranberry juice and treating myself for a UTI before I was able to go into the doctor. When I went in she confirmed my assumptions and said that my proactivity in the situation prevented the infection from worsening and spreading up into my kidneys.
1	One time I was prescribed medicine for an infection. The medicine didn't work, so the doctor prescribed a different medicine. When I picked up the second medicine, I asked the pharmacist if it had any of the restrictions as the first medicine, such as what foods I should avoid and when would be the best time to consume it. 
-1	work experience
1	I was never stupid enough to try to evaluate myself. I always let the doctor diagnose me even if I thought I knew what was wrong with me.
1	When I was diagnosed with prostate cancer and before I made a decision about what treatment to select I read everything I could about the different methods of treatments and the likely outcome, both physically and emotiolly. I discussed each option with the doctor and then made a choice.
1	Every time I receive a new medication I need to understand medical issues. When I listen to the doctor describe a condition or how a medicine works, I need to understand medical issues. 
1	When properly advising a family member to use a particular medicine. They soon began to feel better. 
1	I had a previous knee injury and learned a lot about how to help it heal and what was actually wrong with it. A few months ago, my boss had the same injury. I was able to help give him tips on how to help it heal and explain to him what was actually wrong in easier terms than his doctor had.
1	Growing up I spent a lot of time visiting my grandfather in hospitals and my grandmother was a pharmacist. I feel that by being around them I picked up a lot of medical knowledge by osmosis.
1	I had a hard time getting pregnt so I researched a lot about fertility issues and medical treatments, also learning ways to live healthier to help promote fertility. 
-1	Self-diagnoses of sicknesses. Knowing when to go to the doctor. Not being dead.
1	I know for a fact any time I pee and it is painful I have a UTI. Its something I have gotten many times before and it still happens once in a while no matter how much a try to follow all the rules for not getting one.
-1	If a family member or myself have a simple medical issue they usually ask me what to do, and I almost always can help out or at least stop them from worrying. For example, my father in law had a high blood sugar reading and I helped him get it down and advised him to get tested for diabetes
1	When playing hockey there have been times when I knew if an injury was serious or not.   It comes with age and experience and not just levels of pain.   When you learn your body you can tell when something is really not right or is just a soreness that will go away.
1	I think one experience was when I decided to stop eating meat. I always felt a bit sty before, so I decided to try cutting out different things to see if anything helped. I ended up cutting out meat and started eating healthier, and felt much better overall.
1	"I've been dealing with clinical depression for over 12 years. During that time I've done significant ""reading up"" on anti-depressants (been on 6) and into CBT. In fact, I just started CBT on-line [ MooyGym ]because I live 60 miles from my doctor. And I've learned a *lot* about how the brain works (or doesn't)."
1	One day in the shower, I felt a lump in my breast.  I knew that my mother and grandmother had cystic breasts and that a cyst feels round and soft compared to cancer which can feel more irregular and hard.  Although I made an appointment to go see my doctor and they ended up giving me an ultrasound and mammogram, I wasn't very concerned because I knew the likelihood that this was cancer wasn't a lot because of the things I knew.
1	I had for years digestive issues and a sour taste in my mouth in the mornings. I also seemed to have a slight cough. I pretty much knew it was GERD, but held off for years going to the doctor for it. When it got unmageable and filly went through the tests, I was correct in my thinking.
1	After experiencing the symptoms of both cold and flu over the years, I know what to look for and how to treat it/if I should see a doctor.  Also, after having numerous pap smears and mammograms I know what the results mean after hearing it some many times. 
1	"I have been a chronic opiate user for about 16 years. I have Hepatitis C, most likely as a result from using my same needle repeatedly when new ones were not available. I was blessed to be able to get to go to a doctor that prescribed me Suboxone (new medication treatment for heroin addiction) and because I did a lot of research on treatments for my particular issue, I knew to alert the doctor that I did have Hep C because the ""blocking agent"" in the Suboxone (keeps you from being able to experience euphoria from opiates besides the buprenorphine in the Suboxone), the loxone, has reportedly effected liver function in some people. Now the doctor is going to watch my blood labs to see whether or not I can stay on the current medicine or if I need to switch to a similar version of the drug that does not have the loxone in it."
1	i can usually self diagnose through the internet so when i go in (i need to be damn near dead or something is broken to go in) i tell the doctor so here's what i have (typically strep) he agrees prescribes the z-pac and away i go
1	I used my medical knowledge when it I had to decide a treatment plan for my child when he was diagnosed with bronchitis. I made sure the medication prescribed did not have side effects and they were absolutely necessary. 
1	I just research stuff on medical websites, and talk to my doctors. I've had a couple minor issues in my life where I've been pretty back to back with doctors, so besides all of that, nothing really.
1	I have taken numerous health related college courses and am well versed in how to find and obatian medical information and how to research medical jourls. I had a close relative that was in the hospital after a very bad accident and I was able to research their condition and gain the knowledge to help them make informed medical decisions as part of their recovery.  
1	Signs of infection in a wound. I had an ingrown hair that got infected. The area got red and swollen and pus started to build up under the skin. It took a while for the wound to heal after it was excised due to build up. So I learnt about how to know when something is infected and signs and symptoms associated with it.
-1	Reading through document about bell's palsy and knowing what to expect because a relative had experienced it.
1	A couple of months ago, I started a keto diet. This diet is similar to the Atkins diet. The major difference is you add more fats and healthy oils. After a week or two of no sugar and lows carbs, you're body will go into Ketoisis. This uses stored fat instead of carbs for energy.
1	I was speaking with someone at my church, who mentioned that their son had scoliosis. I asked her how severe it was; what the degree of the curvature was. She was surprised that I was that knowledgeable about it, and I told her that my son had it as well so I knew about it.
-1	I remember a friend telling me he suffered from very strong headaches that made him sensitive to light and sometimes sounds. He complained that the pain was a pulsing one. You could always describe it as throbbing. I mentioned to him that it sounded like a migraine headache, something I suffer from. I told him to see his doctor to make sure, but it sounded like a migraine to me. Turns out that was what it exactly was.  
-1	When my husband was sick, he would not go to the doctor or hospital-I knew he was close to dying and called an ambulance, he had septic shock and they had to warm his blood with a plastic topping he was that close to death.
1	About 10 years ago I self-diagnosed my Autism Spectrum Disorder. I was filly professiolly diagnosed about 8 years later. During that time I learned more than the doctors who refused to listen to my concerns.
1	I've worked as a life and health insurance agent in the past. Often I would help older people with medicare supplement plans. Going through the various plans, overages, deductibles, etc., took a fair amount of knowledge. Drug pricing, altertives and availability. Hospital costs, referral procedures. I would often help them to understand medical terminology.
1	I had a two day stay at the hospital. I was treated for low sodium,because of a drug interaction. I had to answer a lot of questions and i learned a lot.
1	My mother was diagnosed as pre-diabetic and had blood pressure around 200. She was put on meds that turned her into a zombie, but necessarily to save her life. I read up on her medication and found that over long periods of it could have negative effects on the kidneys and had her go back in to see about a different medication, they did tests and found high amounts of protein in her urine because of the medication and was at high risk of kidney damage.
1	I tore my ACL, and had to decide if I would have surgery to replace it or not, and if so, what I would use to replace it. After reviewing the information, I decided to have the surgery, and to use a cadaver part to fix it.
1	My grandmother had heart surgery and she developed a staff infection. They also found pre-cancer cells in her throat at the same time. My family heard cancer and freaked out. I was more concerned with the infection because she was old and pre-cancer cells could take decades to actually turn into cancer. The doctor said i was right and calmed my family the immediate concern was the infection and the heart.   
-1	The research I did on my own issues and the books I read. I looked at WebMD, Wikipedia (even though it's not secure), and other sites. I even took an atomy course where we picked a disease relevant to the chapter and wrote a short discussion board post about it.
1	I was the caregiver and advocate for my father who was dying of lung cancer. I dealt with his doctors and the hospice nurses daily for many months.
1	On one of my doctor's visit, the appointment had to end early because of an emergency. The doctor didn't have enough time to explain to me in person all the questions I had, so he gave me a small booklet instead. I had no problem understanding the material without any help from healthcare professiols.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I was younger I got a rare disease that made me really sick. During this time I was forced to start learning and understanding different medicine and side effects. 
1	I have learned that the food you eat and the exercise you do are very important to your health. It keeps your body strong and your stress level low. 
1	I had a liver disease issue. I looked up information on the matter. I became knowledgeable. I discussed the matter with my doctor in an informed manner.
1	I recently took a medication that had an effect on my dental health. I had to have a tooth extraction, but learned that the drug could have negative consequences. So I informed the dentist about it, and I was more closely monitored during and after the procedure.
1	I have self treated illnesses that most people believe you need to go to the doctor for. 
-1	i just had to listen to doctors and do research on my own
1	"I'm not really sure. I had cancer twice so I guess as I was doing chemo I understood how all this stuff was supposed to work. I knew Everytime I went to the hospital what the routine was, and knew everywhere I needed to go. I'm not sure I really ""demonstrated"" my knowledge but this is the only thing I can think of."
1	I was having issues sleeping. And after some research i found out I was snoring in my sleep and had sleep apnea.
1	My mom went to the ER thinking that she was having a heart attack or at the very least heart problems.  I accompanied her to the hospital although I told her her symptoms were not necessarily heart related and that she really just needed to relax and work on stress reduction.  The doctors agreed with me but went ahead and performed heart stress test.  There was nothing found.
1	I've taken a few atomy classes in college. Besides that, I don't have too much experience.  
1	I honestly cannot think of such an experience.
1	I have asthma. When I was about 15 someone explained that my difficulty breathing was due to too much air in my lungs, not as it seemed, too little. I used this information to train myself to breathe in more shallowly and breathe out more completely. It seems to help when it gets bad.
1	I developed a keloid scar and was going to a dermatologist to get rid of it.  On the first visit she was attempting to describe how it developed in layman terms and I responded by using the medical terminology.  She laughed and said oh you are smarter than you look.
-1	I fell down a flight of stairs.  My son insited I broke my ankle but I assured him I probably had a hair line fracture.  The bone had not come through and I was somewhat able to walk on it.
-1	Like I wrote before... my wife was diagnosed with cervical cancer and we both fought that diseases....  I was on a phone call with all kind of specialists, doctors and technicians...  we got some more experience than we wanted. 
1	"A few weeks ago, my brother hit his head at work. He'd had several mild concussions as a child and pretty much self-diagnosed himself as having another one this time. (Yes, that's wildly irresponsible. Yes, he should have gone to the doctor. You know what, tell it to fucking Nikki Haley because it's her fault he's not insured.) He did some research about concussion and painkillers and said he needed to take something other than Excedrin, preferably Tylenol. He was pretty upset because we didn't have any Tylenol and his head hurt. So I realized that often, different me brands of the same medicine will have similar mes, and another painkiller that ended in ""ol"" might have the same active ingredient as Tylenol. I looked up the active ingredients online and checked the bottle to make sure, and then gave him a Midol from my supply. So most of the medical knowledge in that scerio came from him, but I was the one who realized that Midol would probably help and did the research to verify it."
-1	I had to go get a mammogram so I researched online about it and learned stuff.
1	Someone had fallen at my place of work and was a pale yellow color and also was clutching his chest. I called 911 and had the people that were already on the floor with him trying to see if he's okay, to prop his head up and leave him still until emergency services arrived.
1	When I had an abnormal papsmear, I knew it was possible that it was a false positive. I went through the extra testing and listened to everything the doctor told me and understood thoroughly the process.
-1	When my mother in law got sick with cancer she needed alot of support.  Since having going through it with my mom, I was able to tell her some of the things that she would possibly experience with chemo.  We were able to go to the store to get some things to make her comfortable throughout the process.
1	In high school I had severe headaches for weeks and missed school for two weeks straight, after seeing multiple doctors I filly understood what was going on in my body and I learned that I had Mitral Valve Prolapse. 
1	I guess any atomy exam I've taken would fit this since those literally involved demonstrating medical knowledge, but outside of school I guess the most fitting thing I can think of was when a friend of mine wasn't feeling well and wasn't sure his symptoms meant. I sussed out based on what he was experiencing that it was probably a UTI that was progressing towards the bladder and kidneys, and recommended he see a doctor immediately. It was indeed a bladder infection, and he was able to get effective treatment. I'm glad that my knowledge of that particular health condition helped, as he might not have sought treatment right away otherwise.
-1	I was having inflammation in my sweat glands and I researched what my symptoms were and I found out I actually had a skin disease and my doctor ended up diagnosing me with what i had found
1	My boyfriend has MS and during the time of his diagnosis I spent a lot of time doing research in order to to keep up with doctors when discussing his medical options, as well as on medications that were mentioned.
1	I've lead a very healthy life however I've had 2 brothers who both passed from cancer. My oldest brother died first and I was the only relative to be there for him. Because of that, when my middle brother passed I had a working knowledge of questions to ask the attending physicians and what to expect when the time actually came.
1	I was a C a few years ago.  I also took pharmacology in order to get in to nursing school. I never entered nursing school, although I was admitted.
1	For a good portion of 2015, I was sick. I had a fever, cold, body aches, etc. at least twice a month. Last year, I started eating about five cloves of raw garlic every day. It's a killer on my breath, but I haven't been sick since.
1	I have some experience dealing with IBS which hasn't responded that well to conventiol treatment. I have been able to learn about ways to mitigate it without having to take drugs.
1	I was sick with flu and stuck on work/travel.  I filly insisted home-time so I could rest, eat fruit, granola, yogurt, and take vitamin C.  I was better in less than a day after being sick for a week.
-1	I have high blood pressure and high cholesterol so I am familiar with medical terms and how they affect my life. I was a corrections officer in the infirmary and had several cases that I was able to help because of recognizing certain symptoms.  
1	I have asthma so that has made me more aware of my health choices and medical issues. 
1	I have  had issues with my teeth. due to that i have some knowlage or antibiots and pain killers. 
1	One time I was talking with a co-worker and she was talking about her nephew that had been born with heart defects.  I know a lot about congenital heart defects because my daughter has that also.
1	At one point in my life i was constantly sore and fatigued. No matter how much sleep i had i would always be tired and had poor recovery from excercise. After researching and cutting out all forms of sugar, processed foods, and dairy and started to eat a plant based diet, My health became amazing. I looked and felt amazing. I never even imagined it was possible to feel so good and have so much energy
-1	I recently went through surgery to remove some abnormal cells off of my cervix and this opened my eyes to better women's health.
1	I do not really know what this means. I have looked up symptoms of my SO and convinced her to filly go to the doctor.
-1	I had to take an MRI on my knees to look for problems. The nurse was trying to explain to me how it worked but I already knew how because I had read about them. 
-1	When I went to the doctor and I understood what he was saying without Leigh man's terms 
1	I once was able to explain to my friend some of the details of childbirth. This only sticks out in my mind because they had no idea about the process at all. I also had a decent amount of details about the process. 
1	
1	My mother is 93 years old and has dementia and my husband and myself are her caregivers. We monitor and take care of her health including her type II diabetes and blood pressure. She has had various health issues including hospitalization due to falls and from all this experience we have learned much on how to cope with and mage her health and safety as well as being aware of complications and things to monitor
1	When I needed emergency surgery after a twisted intestine due to gastric bypass I was able to follow along with what tests and procedure information my doctor was going to do and perform.
1	My youngest daughter fell and she thought she broke her wrist. It was swollen but not deformed and she was able to move her hand and fingers. I iced it and waited a day and saw no bruising, so I assumed it was sprained and not broken. I guess I could have been wrong, but in this situation I was right. The swelling went down with ice and the pain was gone in a couple days.
-1	When I tried to eat salads
1	My wife burnt her arm on the stove.  I put it under cool water and then applied aloe vera to it and bandages it.
1	Strokes and high blood pressure run in the family. When my mother called and said her right eye vision was blocked like a curtain had been pulled down half way I knew we had to get her to the hospital quickly. She was having a TIA. She had many of them during her last 2 years alive. They usually lasted only minutes.
1	A time that I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues in my life was when I was with my friend David. David suffers from diabetes and fainted when we were out walking the streets of shville. I was very aware of his condition and ran into the nearest restaurant and got orange juice. We rushed back to David and gave him the orange juice and some food and he was able to get oriented pretty quickly after that before checking his sugar and insulin levels. 
1	
1	I have given birth 4 times. Each experience was different and I had to know about what I needed to do in each situation. The options open to me for pain relief and how they could affect me and the baby. 
1	A friend of mine was displaying all the symptoms of anxiety but didn't think anything was wrong, that it was just a rough patch she was going through. I helped her and showed her medical stuff that made her go to the doctor and get treatment. She's feeling much better now.
-1	
1	When I birthed my son, I took no preparation courses and I handled the birth well. I understood the progression of labor to delivery and knew what to expect without educating myself otherwise. 
1	having gone to the doctors myself and then going with my family members
-1	"An experience that demonstrated my knowledge was at my friends place. My friend's father complained about swelling on a bruise located on this kneecap. He apparently still believes in old methods of injuries and says that there is bad ""chi"" blocking. He would take a slipper to smack the bruise and this gives him relief. I was really shocked at this thinking and I had to stop him and explained that the swelling is because the vessels are damaged so the blood is clogged in the area which gives the swelling look. His solution should be massaging the area so the blood flows away."
1	I just go to the doctor and have seen people be diagnosed. I know basic stuff
1	I enjoy reading articles on health from many sources. My mother is also a doctor and tends to explain things to me about medical issues. Even if I ask her a general question, she wants to give me much more information than I asked for.
1	I got salmonella poisoning one time, I was very sick for 5 days. I filly took my temperature and it was at 105 degrees. I knew that anything above 104 could be deadly, so I arranged a ride to take me to the emergency room.
1	I had a condition in which my ear produced wax without stop. A friend of mine started having the same problem as me some years later and I was able to help him in solving the problem.
1	I remember a spring where I was constantly congested and had itchy eyes. With the knowledge I had about my symptoms and exterl factors, I guessed I had allergies or hay fever. I felt confident in knowing why my body was like that.
-1	I've had to sanitize and bandage a few of my own wounds that weren't serious enough for stitches.
1	what i typically do to help my hypertension is read a lot of nutritiol labels. i try to keep my sodium intake fairly low (a lot of salt makes me really bloated anyway) and i always look at fat and carb content. this is something i do every time i buy a packaged food that has a label on it. if it doesn't have a label, i look it up on my phone if i am shopping. this helps me be much more knowledgeable and aware of what i am eating.
1	I have taken advanced biology classes in college.  I also read a lot about health issues, so I feel I'm fairly knowledgeable.   
1	One experience that demonstrates my medical knowledge was that I lost about 30 pounds over two years and gained a good amount of healthy lean muscle. Getting fit involved learning about and counting calories, choosing healthy proteins and carbohydrate sources with enough fat, and learning about exercise. Through this learning process, I was able to lose this weight in a healthy way, and improve in my efforts at the gym greatly. 
1	In general, I have little knowledge of health and medical issues. The only thing I can think of to describe is a time in my early twenties when I went on a no-grain diet. I had read about the diet and what it entailed, and while looking back, I think it was a poor choice, I was clearly acting on knowledge (however misguided) of a health topic. 
1	My teachers spent considerable time with me making sure that I understood word problems. While I cannot proclaim to be the best, I can say that I am competent.
1	calling 911 when I had a heart attack
1	My husband is a T1 diabetic, my daughter was born with spi bifida and my grandmother is blind. I have a lot of experience with hospitals, doctors, and their forms.
1	I 'm not sure that I really have one. I am on medications for anxiety and depression. Before they figured out what worked for me, I went through a long list of medications that did not work, so in that sense, I was able to determine what worked for me. 
1	I had bronchitis and was told to take a medication. I took it as instructed and the symptoms went away in about a week. But, I continued to take the rest of the medicine as instructed, despite feeling good.
1	I cut my finger while working in the dirt. I had to keep working, but i knew mi finger would get infected if I did without taking care of it. So I washed it, cleaned it with peroxide, bandaged it then put a glove over my hand. It healed fine and never got infected
1	When I was diagnosed with asthma, I had no idea what it was and it really tested my knowledge.
1	I was able to help my mom choose the correct insulin when she was faced with a choice of switching medicine. I was able to help her read and understand the benefits and side effects of each drug.
1	My friend broke his arm a few years back. I was the only one around so I made a splint out of sweater and some wood. When we got to the ER, the nurse complimented me on my splint.
1	After a mammogram showed an area of question, I knew not to panic right away as there could be different reasons for this. Sure enough, after a follow up, it was shown to just be folded skin.
1	I was sent home from the hospital and told to monitor my intake and outake to check for kidney function.  I measured everything I drank and all urine to determine whether or not to call the doctor.  At one point, my intake was almost twice my outtake.  I called the doctor and was hospitalized because my kidneys were shutting down.
-1	I just have a general knowledge about health and medicine. I do not have any significant expertise, and i have not gone to med school. But when my son scrapes his knee, I clean the wound and put on a band aid. 
-1	Well one occassion where i was having severe headaches everyday for about a week without stopping i knew something was wrong. I went to the doctor and i already was hoping for them to do a head scan to see what was wrong. They showed me i had severe chronic migrane and i needed to start taking a few medications . I totally understood everything when it comes to my health and how much i know my body
1	It's less a specific experience and more a general one; about ten years ago I generally felt awful: constant aches and pains, low energy, difficulty breathing, bad mood, poor concentration, frequently sick with colds and sinus infections. It didn't take a lot of knowledge to know what was wrong - I was out of shape, had a poor diet, smoked cigarettes and drank alcohol. I set out and learned a lot about nutrition and exercise, I quit smoking and drinking, and I put a plan in place to gradually change my lifestyle in a way that was sustaible. Today I'm in perfect health, happy, energetic, focused, and haven't so much as had a sniffle in over two years.
1	A couple of years ago, I began to feel extremely anxious. This is a problem because it told me my anti-anxiety/anti-depressant medication was no longer doing its job. My doctor chose to make no adjustments. I knew, from being told by several different therapists, that eventually mental health medications can either stop working or bring your brain chemistry up to a level where it's no longer needed. That I might need off the medication or to be switched to a different one. My doc seemed uware of this. When I couldn't get the help I needed, I changed docs.
1	I was a witnes of a car accident,two weeks ago. I stopped to look after the drivers and there were no bad injuries at first look.One of them was limping and complained about some pain in his leg.I told him to sit down ot lie down,while we were waiting for the ambulance.
1	I have two elderly parents who live part time in Florida, where I live, and I am usually called upon to help them if there are any serious health issues that come up as the rest of my family lives up north. I have more than once had to spend time in the hospital as the only receiver of their health info for the family.
1	My wife had a tooth pulled and it would not stop bleeding. I told her to put a tea bag pver it and that would help stop the bleeding.
1	When I was diagnosed with Trigemil Neuralgia, my neurologist was surprised to find that I actually knew what that was, and what the treatments for it were.  I had done some research prior to going in to see what could have been causing such terrible pain.  My research came up with the TN diagnosis.  However, I wanted a professiol's opinion before deciding with any certainty that TN was indeed what I had, or requesting treatment for it.
1	When dealing with my children I have to fill out all there medical forms and deal with there illnesses or injuries.   I would say just having children you learn a lot by raising them about what is severe and not.  You know when the doctor needs to be called or visited.
-1	When I was twelve years old, a drunk driver hit the car my mother was driving while I was in the backseat. I have very few memories of the accident, but I do faintly recall a serious but calming face as I was gently lifted out of the car. The paramedic held my hand as we traveled to the hospital. I was in the hospital for several weeks and that same paramedic came to visit me almost every day. During my stay, I also got to know the various doctors and nurses in the hospital on a persol level. I remember feeling anxiety about my condition, but not sadness or even fear. It seemed to me that those around me, particularly my family, were more fearful of what might happen to me than I was. I dont believe it was innocence or ignorance, but rather a trust in the abilities of my doctors
1	I can't say there has been an experience in my life that would demonstrate medical knowledge. 
1	A few months ago my son had a sinus infection. After trying traditiol over the counter options we had little result and made a doctors appointment so that we could get an antibiotic. The doctor confirmed that it was a good idea to try to clear it up without antibiotics first, but that he would most likely need them at this point.
1	I guess I would return to my earlier statement in that I am a mother who spent a lot of time dealing with everyone's health issues in my family. I have also taken care of helping my parents because they are aging and get confused. I wouldn't say that I feel completely comfortable with everything related to health decisions, but if I have questions, I ask and I also do a lot of research before I make decisions. I have had to do additiol testing in the past for health issues, and I felt comfortable with my choices after I dug deeply into the issues myself. Ultimately I am the one who wants to decide what happens to me, either good or bad.
-1	i was diagnosed with high colestoral, I was given Lipitor and took the drug as proscribed.  On the next vist to the doctor my colestoral was within acceptable limits
-1	I do not have much medical knowledge.
1	Having gone to my first doctor who approved me for operation on my septum, felt the need to explain things to me about the process as well in simplistic terms and when I explained to him that I already knew it made him angry and then later refused to perform the operation on me by constantly pushing me back until I had to change medical carriers and could no longer get him to perform the surgery.
-1	I was able to detemine if some one has a cold has opposed to an allergy, by the type of symptoms and the pollen count at the time.
1	I was discovered to have high blood pressure a few years ago.  I started taking medication and my BP was lower but I felt terrible.  No energy at all.  So I went back to the doctor and described my symptoms so he put me on a different pill and now I'm doing fine.  I guess that demonstrates my understanding of making sure I get the right medication for me.
1	My father is a doctor and my mother is a nurse. I'm not the best with math however. 
1	A friend of mine actually recently had a mammogram that came out positive. I told her there was a good chance that it was a false positive and might just be a cyst or something. It did in fact turn out to be a false positive.
1	I got bit by a tick and contracted Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever so I went and looked it up and learned as much as I could about it and even offered information to my own doctor.
1	When reading the paperwork on a new medication, I discovered that it was Not advised in someone with my other conditions. Called and told the doctor.
1	A FEW MONTHS AGO MY DAUGHTER HAD A SORE THROAT, FEVER, AND HAD TROUBLE SWALLOWING. BECAUSE THERE HAD BEEN A FEW INSTANCES OF STREP THROAT IN HER SCHOOL, I HAD REASON TO BELIEVE THAT SHE DID TOO. I KEPT HER OUT OF SCHOOL, MADE HER REST AND DRINK A LOT, AND I TOOK HER TO THE DOCTOR. MY GUESS WAS CONFIRMED, AND AN ANTIBIOTIC WAS PRESCRIBED.. 
1	I was diagnosed with a chronic disease a few years ago. I searched a lot of medical information and knowledge online, and consulted with many peoples about this disease. Now, i am taking some medicines to control this disease. I could adjust my medicines based on the self-testing results now. 
1	Every time I go to my doctor I have long conversations about health and medical issues. Sometimes I even remind him of new ways of doing certain procedures. For example, a few years ago I went in to get tested for STD's. I did not have any symptoms but anytime I am sexually active I get tested. Before the test was given I reminded my doctor that bacterial STD's can now be tested through urine and the old invasive procedure was no longer necessary.
1	I honestly only think of times my children were sick, just knowing from experience what was a serious symptom and what most likely was not.
1	I have high cholesterol that I mage with diet, exercise and homeopathic remedy Polycosil. I understand that my LDL is very good, so that helps my HDL even though it is over 200. I get annual blood tests and track my HDL and LDL and compare it to weight. My doctor and I also discuss these results. As long as my LDL stays high, I do not need to start taking a statin to reduce my cholesterol.
-1	Mostly contra indications of my husband's many meds, how to maintain a dyalysis patient, deal with doctors and ask questions that got my husband the right treatment. Also stopped an amputation of Grandmother's leg by indicating the need for a Doppler as she had phlebitis. Only her toe was then amputated.
1	"At one point, I was reading on the appearance of ""floaters"" in one's field of vision out of curiosity since I experienced them very irregularly.  Within a few months, my mom complained to me that she was seeing them very frequently, and I tried to explain to her the potential causes for them, including retil tearing.  Because of this, she went to the doctor and was told she had almost experienced a severe reti tear in one of her eyes."
1	My husband told me he was peeing blood and that it hurt to pee. He tends to freak out about these things. I told him it was just a UTI. I told him I could make an appointment for him in the morning, but he dove to the ER instead. They said it was an UTi and gave him antibiotics. Im SO glad he listened to me :( spent $300 at the ER instead of waiting for the morning to see his regualr physician and co pay of $30.
1	I have always been interested in medicine, I have training as an EMT/Medic and have worked as a Vocatiol Rehabilitation Counselor
-1	I got fibromyalgia 6 years ago I had too read and learn a lot of stuff now I barely have pain and I rarely ever take any medicine for it.
1	My youngest brother is a diabetic, has been since he was two years old.  He came to live with me as an adult.  One morning he knocked on my bedroom door and said he felt funny.  His neck hurt, he had blood on his t shirt and on his lips.  I asked him to open his mouth.  i could see teeth marks on his tongue.  I knew he had had a seizure.  I got some juice into him and called an ambulance.
1	One of my daughters was born with heart defects (ASD, PDA, Coarc) - I got a crash course in medical issues during her 2 heart surgeries.
1	I have a minor in Community Health so I am a bit more in tune with medical issues than most. Whenever I have any medical problem I research it on the internet heavily so I usually know quite a bit before getting to the medical office.
1	I had never had an abnormal mammogram until I moved to a new area of the country, and my old mammograms were lost due to flooding. For the next several years I was told I needed further screening after every single annual mammogram. None of this further screening revealed any signs of cancer. I discussed the situation with my doctor and asked to be sent to a different provider for my next mammogram. I have not had an abnormal mammogram since.
1	It was just a few days ago, I got a sore throat. I knew I gargle warm water with salt it would go away. Then few days later, no more sore throat.
1	my mom had a bulge on her aorta. The doctor wanted to watch it and use medication, but when I searched info online we found out it was borderline for surgery, so my mom asked for surgery instead.
1	When I asked to be induced with my first son.  I knew something was not right.  My glucose test came back fine but I had every symptom of GD and the OB would not listen to me.  Once my due date hit, I was able to be induced.  At the time of delivery, I had gained 100 lbs, had a ton of swelling, high BP, extreme thirst and ended up having an 11 lb baby,
-1	well i try my best stay out of the hospital  and keep from being sick  i like to stay in good health
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues was when I was able to recognize the signs of congestive failure in a friend (shortness of breath, fluid, tiredness)
1	My friend was just diagnosed with Diabetes. His blood sugar was 450. He thought he should work out to get his numbers down but I told him No. That all the sugar in his blood would be sent through his heart many times and at high speeds. He should just relax take his meds and drink water.
-1	when I was diagnosed with type diabetes and had to read all of the content regarding my medications and new lifestyle changes required.
1	My doctor informed me that I have high blood pressure. I know that taking high blood pressure medication will lower my blood pressure readings and reduce the chance that I might have a stroke. 
1	Telling someone that they didn't have a problem when they thought that they did. My friends tongue was green for a couple of days and she thought something serious was going on but I suggested that she likely has mucus dripping from a post-sal drip and it is coloring your tongue. She went to the doctor who had confirmed what I had told her.
1	I am currently in a situation where we have been trying to determine what is my heath issues. I have had to do some of my own research and talk to many specialists to determine my issues. sometimes I am given a lot of medical jargon. most I understand and repeat my understanding to my doctors just to make sure we are on the same page about the information they are giving me.
1	I suffer from asthma.  I know what the doctors are looking for when they use a pulse ox.  I also know what oxygen levels are good and what is not so great.  I am also familiar with how they check for pneumonia.
-1	I have really sensitive skin and I have been told I had scabies and different sorts of issues.  However we found out by trying different doctors that it is a rare form of excema. It didn't feel like things borrowing it just itched. I wasn't going to take the first doctors prognosis and attempted to try others.
1	A long time ago when I had a bulging disc I was prescribed 3 meds.  I recognized the me of one of them being a high powered muscle relaxant.  I called my doctor for clarification, and he assured me that it was safe.
1	I have extensively researched an illness my sister is suffering from and have helped lead her in the right direction by having her ask doctors the appropriate questions to get the treatment that she needs.
1	I had a mammogram that was a false positive. They wanted me to come back in but I didn't. I have been told in prior years that my breast are dense. This will cause a false positive over 90% of the time. 
-1	My mom was taking chemo and needed to take an antibiotic for something. The next morning after starting the antibiotic her neck swelled up. I told her it was an allergic reaction and took her to the Dr. He argued with me that that was NOT a known side affect and it had to be something else. In looking through his medical book it was listed as a side affect in a small % of users. I was correct.
1	When my son was given antiobiotics and immediately had a rash appear. I knew that I should give him bedryl then call the nurse line for further instructions. I also knew it was important to watch his airway.
1	I was diagnosed with high blood pressure and lowered it by taking fish oil.  It worked well for me.
1	"When my son was an infant, I went for a doctor's visit. I ended up seeing a doctor whom I'd not seen before. He started telling me that I needed to schedule a mammogram very soon since I'd never had one and was ""just a few years away from turning 40."" My son was nursing exclusively full-time. I told him that, since I was not having breast issues and I was nursing an infant, I thought it better to wait until the baby was bigger and not nursing so often.  My regular doctor and my midwife both agreed with me."
1	I do not know how to answer this as I feel all my experiences lead me to this knowledge of health or medical issues as I try to study and learn as much as possible. This question is either unclear or I just am not understanding it. I can only reiterate: no one experience demonstrated my knowledge. I try to make myself knowledgeable whenever I have a medical issues by studying and inquiring.
-1	It was five years ago when I got a right leg fracture because I was having MVA during my vacation.The injury is not that serious but it causes a small fracture on my right leg ankle.I was having an encounter with ornithologist and I'm glad that he was able to help my condition and healed in less than two months.During those times, I often ask him every single procedure he did to me because I want to know what is the indication of every procedure and medicines so he taught me so.
1	When I went to the doctor for issues with a stress fracture in my leg. This had been a reoccurring issue in my life, and I was able to understand what the doctor was describing as far as the impacts on my leg.
1	I slipped on some ice and fell on my side. Initially I thought I had just bruised my elbow, but when I found a few hours later that I was having pain and trouble applying grip strength in certain positions I knew I should get it looked at. After some x-rays it was eventually diagnosed as a fracture.
-1	my sisters appendix ruptured and the doctors cut her bowel while trying to clean her out. she had to have a colostomy bag for 2 months and we had to learn how to care for it/change it. 
1	I don't really have an instance or can recall anything which I showed knowledge about health issues. I don't generally read up on health and medical publications,. If anything, when I'm unsure of something, I look it up on the internet. 
-1	I had kidney stone problem. I did not know it. When I was travelling, my pains started and I was alone in a long distance trip. I called 911.
1	The first experience that comes to mind is helping my daughter with a diet and exercise program for school sports. She was very interested in being as healthy and physically fit as she could and I was able to help her quite a bit due to my previous experiences.
1	There was this one time that I had sunburn on my face.  Then my face had some swelling becuase of the sunburn.  I put a cold ice pack on my face and it made my face feel better.  This is how I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	When my children have fevers I give them tylenol and make them rest and check their temperature often to see if we need to go to the pediatrician. 
1	I have had fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome and arthritis for over 25 years.  In addition, I was diagnosed with cancer 10 years ago which required surgery and follow-up chemotherapy.  I still have many checkups and medical tests to monitor all of my conditions on a regular basis due to the after effects of previous treatments.  It is very important to me to keep up with my understanding of medical issues.
1	My husband's grandmother was told that she had cancer and that she needed to go to an oncologist. I can't remember the exact word they used, but she thought she did not have cancer and I told her and my husband what the word meant and that she did have cancer, which she continued to insist was not true. the oncologist told her differently. 
1	A while back, I started having difficulty uriting and I had a swollen and tender lymph node in my groin. I thought it was likely that I had a UTI. I visited a walk-in clinic, was prescribed antibiotics, and the symptoms cleared within the week.
-1	I worked for a pharmaceutical inventory company, I learned to mes of both trade and generic  drugs and what their uses were. 
1	Recently my brother in law was committed for psychiatric treatment.  My husband had lots of questions about diagnoses and medications his brother was taking.  I've taken psychiatric medication before for depression and anxiety so I was able to explain to my husband about some of the medications his brother was taking.
1	"I can't really think of an experience off hand to be honest. I'm pretty good at giving people general nutritiol advice but almost no one ever takes it. I tried to teach a friend of mine how to read a nutrition label once, but she got ""distracted"" and we never did finish."
1	When my diabetic father woke up with mental confusion one night I was correct that he had low blood sugar and needed to eat.
1	I had been experiencing anxiety and after attempting to cope with it on my own I filly made that doctor appointment.  I explained my concern with the doctor and she prescribed a low dose of a medication that I had already done some research on.
1	I had a runner friend who was describing to me how they felt like that were falling apart. They week before they had pulled a leg muscle and this week they were experiencing hip problems.  I was thought I knew the causes so I asked them if they were running everyday and if they continued running after pulling the muscle. When they answered yes on both counts I explained that they needed to add rest days to their routine and that the hip pain was the result of the body making unconscious corrections in running style due to the pulled muscle. I recommended they take a week off to heal up and some NSAIDs to keep swelling down. The recommendations were effective.
1	I had an experience with a situation where my husband was diagnosed with a brain aneurysm and was medically induced/placed in a coma.There was no action on the part of the team at this hospital to help correct the problem. I contacted a neurosurgeon in another city because I knew there was a 48-72 hr window for any help to be successful. He was airlifted to the facility and recieved a coilb procedure to seal of the bleeding. He survived.
1	
1	I woorked in a hospital as a night shift computer operator. Part of my function was to print the bills. What an eye opener as to the horrible cost of medical care in the US. As recently as today I am reminded of the cost of healthcare in the US with ads about bankruptcy due to medical bills and how people have to hock eveyrthing to pay off their medical bills. What a mess!
1	I have high blood pressure.  Therefore I am aware of the significance of systolic, diastolic readings.  I also pay attention to my pulse rate. As to experience, I can tell if I miss my meds due to increase in my pulse, which I can feel.
1	I was told my sugar was close to pre-diabetic range. My doctor asked if I was working on this. I let him know that because of the frequency of diabetes in my family, I had recently begun to make big efforts in preventing diabetes. I've reduced my carb intake to no more than 50 grams per meal, with an average closer to 30. I've also started exercising daily. 
1	I was able to recognize the symptoms of kidney stones in a friend of mine. I had had them before and he was thinking of calling an ambulance. He was worried it was his appendix but I told him it was on the wrong side, as his pain was on the left side.
1	When I first went to the dermatologist, the nurse was impressed that I knew what salicylic acid was. Now that I'm a bit older, they usually don't think it's as cute.
-1	I had a cyst on my butt that I tried to treat at home until the pain became so unbearable that I had to seek medical help. The doctor sliced open the swollen area and odorous pulse came out of it. After spending a couple of days in the hospital for observation, the doctor asked my why I waited so long to come to a doctor and that what I had could have developed into something much worse.
-1	My friend had a problem that when he woke up in the morning he felt tired and fell a sleep at work. I asked him if he  snored and had high blood pressure and he said yes. I mentioned that he should be tested for sleep apnea which he was and now uses a cpap, just like me. 
1	When i had my children my knowledge was tested and I started to look into things more.
1	I have had struggles with bronchitis before and after the first diagnosis I know exactly when I am going to get a flare up based on how I feel. I know when to look for my chest to rattle, and when to address instead of panicking early on.
1	I was trying to eat a very healthy diet and started to have weird symptoms. I researched the symptoms and discovered that they correlated with insufficient calorie intake. I evaluated my diet and realized that I wasn't eating enough, especially enough fats, realized that I met the criteria for a diagnosis of EDNOS that was in the most current DSM at the time, and changed my diet to better reflect my caloric needs. 
1	I gave birth to a child. Before and after that there was not much else regarding medical issues, but that taught me a lot.
1	Some time ago, I learned that someone I know was having an episode of high anxiety. I knew that anxiety is linked to breathing patterns. I applied my knowledge of controlled breathing to help this person recover from the episode.
1	During the Ebola crisis I had a lot of coworkers freaking out over getting Ebola. I had to tell them constantly that there was hardly any chance that they or anybody they knew would get it. Very hard to contract and even if it was in america the people would be quarantined. At the end of the whole thing nobody died.
1	I was given a course of antibiotics to take for 20 days.  Even though I felt better after 3 days I continued taking the medication because I knew the bacteria may still be present even though I was no longer feeling the symptoms and stopping early could increase the chances of creating a drug resistant form of the bacteria.
-1	My wife has MS and I go with her to every appointment.  The doctor was impressed that I knew so much about the disease and that we were already doing some of the exercises.  She gave us some more things to try to help with mobility.  This disease has a lot of twists and turns.  Everyday is something new to learn about.
1	There haven't really been any experiences like that. I don't want to make anything up. I've been to a doctor like 3 times ever and I never had to do anything to demonstrate my knowledge.
1	When my dog was sick I figure out that we was either allergic or was having a reaction to certain kinds of food. He had symptoms similar to allergies. 
-1	I went to a doctor because i had a lump at my side. it was the size of a marble and it was black in color compare to my lighter carmel complexion. it was painful to touch and i could not lay down on that side of my body.  The doctor told me it was just fat tissue when she felt it and said she could do minor surgery and remove it by cutting it out. I told her i'll decide if to do surgery to remove it. I did my own research online based on signs and symptoms and the swelling turned out to be a acne cyst. I look up treatment for cyst and treat the problem myself. the pain disappeared and the swelling went down flat.
-1	when i get a cold i know that things to do to get myself well. i know the foods to eat. i know to rest and what medicines to buy.
1	It seems that regularly I am able to self-diagnose many problems and make necessary changes that get me on the correct path before I even see my doctor to get his opinion. I have adapted my diet and lifestyle to combat symptoms in advance only to have my doctor commend me on being proactive with my condition.
1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy. My daughter-in-law is a neurologist specializing in epilepsy. She has been my back-up with MRI's, meds, dosage and general care I have learned more about my problem through my Dr's and here to keep current on my problem..
1	I began experiencing severe coldness in my fingers of my left hand, to the point where the digits turned blue and dark purple (even when I was indoors at 65 degrees). This progressed to affect my nose, left foot toes, and sometimes my nipples, with severe episodes causing my fingerils to develop waves and my fingers to develop painful lesions that scarred. I researched and figured out that I have Rayud's syndrome and that constriction in my blood vessels was likely due to stress, cold temperatures, etc. Through diet and exercise, I have reduced the number of episodes that I have. 
-1	I kept having very severe reactions after eating certain types of food or consuming certain drinks. It was very painful, like being punched in the stomach from the inside. I suspected it had to do with my being sensitive to the acid content of what I had and it could be acid reflux. I went to my doctor and sure enough, my suspicions were correct. 
1	I am overweight and I am always told that I probably have diabetes before they ever test me. They always just assume and I tell them every time that I don't. I do not have any of the common symptoms of diabetes besides the fact that I am overweight. In the end they are always shocked that I turn out to be right and that diabetes is not the problem.
1	Years ago I had problems with my stomach. Based on the symptoms, I was pretty sure that I knew what the problem was. After double checking online, I was even more sure, so I went to the doctor. It turns out that I was right and the doctor let me know that it was good that I came in when I did, so he was able to help me.
1	When I spilled ravioli on my arm, I was able to identify the burn as a second-degree burn and I knew that I shouldn't put a cotton bandage directly on the burn because that could result in harm to my skin. I ran my arm under cool water, took ibuprofen, applied an antibiotic cream, and bandaged the burn loosely to prevent infection.
-1	When I was 18 I was told I might have cervical cancer. When I when to see my obgyn to get tested I did my research so as he was going through the orocudur I was able to ask more in depth questions
1	I was doing some cleaning and lifting heavy objects when I felt something in my stomach and groin area, I thought maybe I pulled a muscle, but then a bit later I noticed a bulge in my groin. I did some research online and found out that it was most likely an inguil hernia. I went to my doctor and he confirmed my suspicions. 
1	I was diagnosed with diabetes three years ago. I took a diabetes education class at the local hospital and did lots of research on my own about diabetes. With this knowledge, I was able to learn steps I can take and things I can change about my lifestyle to help me mage the diabetes. Through carrying out these changes I lowered my A1C considerably and brought it back into the normal change. It has stayed there and my blood sugar levels have been consistently in the normal range. This is partially a result of the medication I now take but also a result of eating a much better diet and exercising more, which I learned how to do through my research. 
-1	I haven't
-1	I am the only one in my household who have knowledge of health issue i have to take care my 11 years daughter, father and mother in law who have parkinson's, blood pressure, diabeties and prostate. alwyas i ahve to go doctors for them to consult. their medication etc.
1	My then-12-year-old daughter ate a brownie and broke out in hives & started wheezing. I gave her some Benedryl, and took her to the emergancy room immediately.  Turns out, my daughter had developed an allergy to tree-nuts. My husband is deathly allergic to eggs, so I had an idea of what a food-allergy reaction looked like & how serious it COULD be. I'm also aware that allergies can develop or fade away at any age, or stay the same for life.
1	i honestly dont know what to put here, i dont feel ive ever shown something like this in a significant way
1	My child had been ill with a fever, random usea and fatigue. After the fever and usea had passed, he was still extremely fatigued and had swollen glands. Even though I had never known anyone to experience it, I suspected mono since this was unusual for him to be so tired. He had bloodwork done and he was in fact infected with mono.
1	Taking a drug for ADHD required me to understand the health risks associated with an amphetamine.  I had to understand percentage and probability risks for things like heart attack due to chest pains and irregularities.
1	When my father died.
-1	Changes in the body which are not pleasant
1	I have been able to diagnose and override a doctor when my brother was on the clinic, and It turned out that I was right. 
1	I haven't had many situations in which I needed to be able to demonstrate knowledge if medical issues. Both of my parents passed away from cancer and I did gain some knowledge of that process at that time. 
1	I'm not sure I can think of one. My cat was diabetic  so I had to give him insulin and when he went into kidney failure I gave him fluids so I understand the technical process but I don't feel I have a proper understanding of the actual disease.
1	I sometimes discuss my friend's medical condition with them. I will pass along information I have confirmed with my doctor.
1	
1	I felt that I was going to faint after I had spent a long time standing up in a particularly hot office. I had had similar experiences  before, and had researched the subject of the vasovagal response and the best action to take in that situation. I quickly got to the ground, elevated my legs, and tensed my leg muscles as I had researched.  As a result, I didn't faint and was able to stand up again and resume work shortly afterwards.
-1	The most important experience was when I took my state board exams for my PTA license. I had to be well versed in medical terminology as well as diseases and the causes and treatment for each one. Most important was knowing what muscle controls what part of the body. 
-1	I worked as a medical transcriptionist in the radiology department at my local hospital. I had to type doctor's dictations regarding patient x-rays, MRI's, CT scans, and ultrasounds. I learned about a lot of health and medical issues from typing these reports, such as broken bones, spine or joint conditions, and many types of cancer.
-1	When I had my first heart attack I was in really bad shape. When I got out I was given all of these different types of exercises to follow every day in order to keep me in tact with my health.  It was difficult to keep up with. I had to get family to help me out with my schedule.  I learned so much during this trial about things I didnt even know about my own body and health. 
1	The second time that I got pregnt I felt as though I had a great knowledge of the process. This is the only medical issue that I am very familiar with. Now that I have friends who are pregnt I get to show my knowledge. 
-1	i   got knowledge through friends  and relations health problems
-1	I have had multiple friends and loved ones pass away from cancer, so therefor have looked into the topic of cancer in itself and the single fact that cancer is a business in this country.
1	When I was diagnosed with pcos. I am able to explain to people the effects of having it and what exactly it is. A lot of people have never even heard of it.
1	It really breaks down to being able to do math cause so much of it is based on a percentages. 
1	I have not had many experiences in my life to help my knowledge of health or medical issues. I am studying to become a nurse, so I have taking a couple of Atomy and Physiology courses that have helped a bit. My grandmother is also a nurse, and I am sure just talking to her has had a little bit of an effect on my understanding.
-1	My children had fevers reading over 100. I knew this was no cause for concern because infant temperatures often read higher and to watch their behavior and stools instead for any inconsistencies.
1	A couple of years ago, I had some kind of a bump on my upper leg. It kind of freaked me out, not knowing what it was and how it developed. But instead of worrying too much about it and running to the doctor I just watched it to see if it began to hurt or get bigger. I didn't want to scare myself or my family too much about it so I just waited. I also didn't look anything up online, knowing that that would only make me much more anxious and scared. Eventually, it went away, as I believe it was just from stress or something.
-1	Once I had a tiny growth on my thyroid. One doctor (who was slash for cash happy) wanted to rip it out. In light of the fact that I'm a singer, I instead elected to monitor it once a year. There has been no change in the 6 years I have been monitoring it. 
1	Family members with cancer, and a mother with a very odd medical history, mostly unexplained.
1	When I eat and want to figure out how many calories I ate I can calculate that easily . 
1	When I had to take a family member to the hospital. The person fell from his roof I brought them there. I had to fill out all the paperwork since their was no one else in the state to do so. 
-1	I was diagnosed late in life with beta thalassemia minor; up until that time I had always been considered anemic but no one ever considered the cause.  With my current doctor he asks for blood tests every 6 months.  Every time he discusses the results with me he gets concerned about the anemia.  Every single time I have to remind him that it is the thalassemia minor which is NOT treatable, especially not with iron supplements.
-1	I guess when I was talking to my husband about diabetes. My father has it, so I was able to tell him about my dad's condition with an above basic level of understanding.
1	I have a masters degree in occupatiol therapy and work in a hospital setting.
1	A time in my life when I had to demonstrate my knowledge of a medical issue was a time when I had to help care for my sick relative, I had to learn about their condition and the medication they took.  I had to take them to the hospital one evening and explain to the doctors their condition and medication.
-1	In my studies of my own ailments such as blood pressure
1	I came down with flu-like symptoms but experienced headaches and stiffness in my neck that are symptoms of a more serious ailment: meningitis. I quickly sought the assistance of a health practitioner that commended me for recognizing the dangers and not trying to remedy the situation myself.
1	Having children made me a pseudo expert in diagnosing health issues and adding to my health knowledge. Many times, my children would exhibit symptoms and if they appear benign enough I would go online to check symtoms to self diagnose. While doing that, I've read up and gained a lto of knowledge on many different illnesses and its treatments. 
1	My fiance had 3 strokes in 3 weeks in March of 2017. Fortutely, I was aware of the warning signs, and got her help before things got too out of hand. I've also helped her with her other medical issues, so I know what meds to go for when she has a problem.
1	This is kind of a hard question to answer. I have never had any serious medical issues persolly. I have extensive knowledge of many issues my father had prior to his death. He was a diabetic, along with the majority of his siblings and mother. I know that there could be a high probability that I could acquire diabetes myself if I don't take care of my body by watching what I eat and exercising  regularly.
-1	I would get tested with how these things are done and how people were doing and making sure that these things can work
1	I like helping people figure out the dosage recommended of a specific medicine and also look up symptoms to try and diagnose an ailment. 
1	A few years ago I decided to severely reduce my sugar intake due to the harm caused my eating too much. I avoid little added sugar as possible and reduced my carbohydates.
1	I once cut my hand on glass pretty bad. I was able to clean it, stop the bleeding, and bandage it fairly quickly without going to the doctor.  
1	When my daughter was born she has SVT, which essentially was a hole in her heart that led to an elevated blood pressure.  She had to spend the first three days in the NICU, take medicine once a day for a year, and see the cardiologist once a week.  
-1	I had come out of surgery, was drugged up on morphine, and woke up to see that I had another person's me on my wrist band.  Local TV had a news story that said to always check the me asap.  It might have saved my life.
-1	I tore a muscle in my back off the bone working out. I was able to figure all this out by doing my own research and saved myself a lot of money by doing so. 
-1	I was diagnosed with breast cancer and I did a lot of research about it by finding every medical book on the subject and reading it and then going to see the surgeon to discuss my options. 
1	I don't think there are any great stories in my life that would tell about that kind of thing, so I don't know if this is any good...  I just try to follow the low-carb diet my doctor said I should follow every day and take my medications as directed.
-1	I've had CPR training through the red cross. I had to help a child I was watching when she choked on a mint.
1	I noticed my friend was smiling weird.  Her smile was crooked.  I knew this was a sign of a stroke and got my friend to the hospital.  They were able to give her medication to prevent a major stroke.
1	When I was a young child my little brother had chicken pox. My parent didn't speak English that well so I filled the medical form for them.
-1	I suppose helping a friend who's wife was pregnt as I had gone through the same thing a year prior.
-1	I persolly have been very lucky as far as my health goes. I have pretty good health for my age. My sister had cancer, I learned a lot while being with her at the hospital. My son was in a coma for thirteen days, I gained some knowledge while he was in the hospital. I do not think I have a great deal of medical knowledge. I did sell health and life insurance for a few years so I know some of the terminologies but not that much on what each condition details.
-1	When the doctors told me I have a leaky heart valve they explained to me that my heart was pumping some of the blood backwards, or regurgitating. 
1	I had a friend who was acting quite unusual.  Her behavior was odd, yet quite familiar.  As a person who is treated for depression, I have read up a great deal about the condition, where I even volunteer to counsel other who also experience depression. I knew the signs right away, and talked to her.  Luckily, I referred her to a licensed mental health specialist to get the care and propoer diagnosis that she needs.
-1	The first time I went to a doctor's visit alone. I had been enough times that I did not need any help asking questions or filling forms. 
-1	I was diagnosed with Crohn's Disease so I researched it which led me to know that there is no cure for it.  Doctors still don't know what caused it.  People get it in their 20s.  There is a class of drugs called 5-ASAs which are prescribed for maintence of my condition.  I'm taking Lialda, which is a 5-ASA, to reduce flareups of Crohn's Disease.
-1	I went through many years of doctor's trying to figure out a mysterious illness that I had. After some time, I decided to start doing some research on my own. I was able to come up with something that I thought fit my symptoms very well and was able to find a few doctors who agreed with me and gave me an official diagnosis. 
1	I went to the doctor who was having a hard time explaining the pain I was feeling in my breast but I was able to help him articulate what he was trying to say. We laughed about it afterwards. He was a newer doctor.
1	For several years, I helped my parents with chronic health conditions including diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. I learned a lot about those conditions and was constantly applying what I learned to daily situations including maging high and low blood sugar, confusion, and activating community resources for their situation.
-1	I started having bad headaches then I started having seizures. I had never had seizures before. about six months past and I had a stroke.   
1	I didn't have insurance and I had an abscess in my mouth where a tooth had decayed.  I ended up treating it with fish antibiotics.  This did the trick as I felt better in 2 days (but continued to take the antibiotics for a week).  A few weeks later I got the rest of the tooth removed at a dental school on the cheap.  But yeah I knew what to do in that instant without going to the emergency room and getting a huge bill and prescription I couldn't afford.
-1	I knew my symptoms were aligned with a certain diagnosis. I explained it to my doctor and he realized that I was correct based on my symptoms. 
1	I hurt my wrist and had to decide whether or not to make an appointment with my doctor or go to the emergency room at a hospital. I called my doctor and described my symptoms. They asked me about the location, appearance, and other details, and I chose to make an appointment rather than go to a hospital.
-1	When I had a bunch of fertility tests done. I had to go over everything from my cholesterol to vitamin deficiencies. 
-1	I have had a lot of UTI and kidney issues over the years. i was diagnosed with a UTI a few years back and took medication for it but i didn't feel that was right and kept researching my symptoms. Everything was pointing to stones and a few days later i passed a kidney stone. I learned all about the causes, effects, and preventatives to kidney stones
1	"I guess I would have to say one of the million or so times I had to deal with medical situations with raising three sons.  Looking back, it seems like one or the other of them was always hurt or sick!  They did keep me on my ties.  if we had ran to the doctor every time they ""stubbed a toe"", I would still be paying off doctor bills."
1	I have worked in a parasitology lab.  This has given me the knowledge to know the symptoms of various parasitic diseases as well as the ability to positively identify various blood stage parasites in blood smear. 
1	My mother had an inner ear infection that led to an absess in her brain. She was hospitalized with quite a few surgeries, and spend a couple of months in rehabilitation. There were several doctors explaining several things over the course of her treatment and recovery. 
1	My son has minor asthma symptons so I did some research and ended up understanding the causes and treatments.  There was a time when my son was having some chest pains and having a hard time breathing.  I couldn't find his inhaler so I had him stand in front of the freezer where I learned that the cool air helps with the breathing.  
1	I actually had a bacterial infection in my lungs and had went to a doctor who claimed it was a cold. I tried telling him I had no symptoms of a cold and he would not budge and told me to get some Robitussin or something similar. I ended up going to ER where I was diagnosed with a bacterial infection and receive the proper anti bacterial  medicine and within  two days the cough started to subside. Most Dr's just don't bother to spend the time anymore to ask and simply generalize what they think it is based on whatever may be widespread at the time as opposed to your symptoms.
-1	I will say it was when grandmother was diagnosed with brain cancer. Her brain swelled up and there was a medication that could be given her to lower the inflammation on the brain but she had diabetes and this will increase the glucose level. She was 75 years old and I expl to the doctor that based on what I read online the chances of her going into a diabetic coma were almost none. Based on what I read there is a little chance of a person with a high glucose level who is over the age of 70 going into a diabetic coma almost non existing and also she was going to die anyways, the tumor was not operable and it did not respond to radiation.
1	I was quite athletic when I was growing up. Did a lot of weight training and exercise physiology. When I injured myself and had to go to physical therapy. Everything that the therapist was talking about made perfect sense to me, and the verbiage and actual motions used during the exercises were all ready within my muscle memory.
-1	I just do a lot of research. I read a lot of books on medicine, illnesses and the medical profession and ethics. I watch a lot of documentaries on the topic also and my mother was a nurse.  
1	I helped my mother through a breast cancer fight and pallative care for pancreatic cancer.
1	I felt congested and had pain in my chest.  I could feel it when I inhaled.  There was a gurgling sound.  I went to the doctor and told him I had pneumonia.  He said he'd be the judge of that.  When the x-rays came back.  He agreed.
1	I have ran many marathons successfully and taken care of all recovery that had to do with it without any outside help.
1	My friend had recently had recently had a miscarriage and was having problems afterwards that was effecting her work and home life. I suggested that she might have reactive depression which is something that can happen after a miscarriage. She went to see a doctor and he confirmed I was correct. He put her on some medication and she saw a therapist which real he helped her get back to her usual self.
1	I demonstrate my medical knowledge from what I learn from my doctor to other people when the topics come up, for instance with my other friend's children are sick or hurt.
1	"I recently learned I have the MTHFR genetic defect from both parents (homozygous). I researched the genetic mutation issue and came to understand that my body does not ""methylize"" properly. In particular, my ability to convert folate to a useble form is compromised by about 70%. This has an effect on the efficiency of many methylation and detox pathways in my body. This also means I am more suspectible to certain health issues (fertility issues, depression, heart and vascular disease, Parkinson's). Some experts believe there are dietary and nutritiol options that can help to offset some of the effects of the ""mutation."" I am pretty well versed in what they are at this point."
1	I have never had an experience like this before. 
1	My daughter has had recurring fevers over the last few years. We've been to our pediatrician and specialists multiple times trying to discover the cause. It's led me to do significant research on auto-inflammatory syndromes, comparing her symptoms to those of the various recognized disorders. While certainly not a doctor, I feel fairly knowledgeable on auto-inflammatory disorders as a result.
-1	"My son while still in highschool got a concussion during practice and I was called to come and get him. I took him to the emergency room. The doctor gave the typical instructions on what not to let him do. I asked him if getting some of the amino acids that act as neurotransmitters to the brain help speed up his recovery. He looked at me as if I had three heads and answered I guess in disbelief that I actually knew something. His response was"" yes""."
1	Recently I've seen that I have more health problems if I sleep less, and my health is better if I sleep more.  So I've been trying to sleep more because sometimes if I sleep less my ear starts hurting.
1	I was feeling a shortness of breath. The doctor thought I was having an asthma attack but here it was just because I had not excericsed in a while and this was catching up to me. I had to slowly bring my excercise up rather than jump in right away.
1	I had a pain in my neck that was getting worse and I figured it was because I was using my tablet and my head was at a angle that was causing me problems. I started setting my tablet at different angle and over the course of a couple of weeks my neck pain faded and then completely went. If I would have still had the pain after a couple of weeks I would have went to the doctor, but since that time I have never had any problems with it again.
1	when my husband had to have surgery i had to help him fill out the paperwork and try to explain to him when was going to happen and how i would take care of him
1	A close friend developed high blood pressure and prediabetes. Doctors put him on medication that he didn't want to take, and they gave him a (truly) lousy diet and exercise program that would've ensured he stayed on the meds forever. I cleaned up his diet, got him on a sensible training program, and now he doesn't need to take any medication.
1	I play basketball a lot. I was also interested in sports medicine. I have twisted my ankle numerous times over the years. My knowledge on how to treat sprains was an asset to me. 
-1	I have completed a c program several years ago, I have also taken a medical terminology course and enjoy medical tv shows.
1	Several years ago I had a problem with my left shoulder. I would feel intense pain in my shoulder when I would to certain motions, but at other times it was not a problem. I thought it was shoulder impingement syndrome. I knew about this because two of my birding friends had the same problem and talked to me about it and the symptoms and the physical therapy treatments for it. So when it happened to me I thought I knew what it was right away. When I went to the doctor (who is NOT the same doctor I have now) he sent me to an orthopedic surgeon who confirmed that. But I already knew what it was, I just wanted to get the referral to start the physical therapy. I wish my doctor had listened to me more carefully and had given me the referral himself because I would have started treatment two weeks earlier.
1	i sometimes kinda diagnose my aliments using google,however i am not very good at it. when i was a teeger.my girl friend at that time was babysitting a 7 year old boy,who fell off a swing and broke his arm.she called me first since i was only a few houses away,and asked me what to do.i went over there and his arm had a u shaped fracture.i told her to call an ambulance.thats it,thats all i got.
1	I learned knowledge of health or medical issues as I was raising my children.  Also my parents had health problems early on because they smoked, ate food that was high in cholesterol so I've learned what not to eat and to exercise to stay as healthy as I can.
1	When I talk with doctors, I seem to understand medical terminology. I notice how similar conditions have similarities in their me. Also, I notice that drugs that control similar aspects have similar pre- or suffixes. 
1	My friend told me about a disorder they had called celiac disease and I already knew quite a lot about the disorder. 
-1	My blood pressure was high. I began to eat better and exercise. When it remained high, I talked to my doctor and started blood pressure meds.
1	When my mother was diagnosed as diabetic, we were told to limit her carb intake. I spent time reading several guides given to me by her doctor and attending two classes given by a registered dietitian. Through diet and medication, we were able to lower her fasting glucose levels significantly.
1	I had leg swelling, and red blotches above my ankles, so I went to a clinic that open.  The doctor there told me that I had cellulitis, but I didn't think so because there was too much pain involved.  I decided to go the hospital ER and get a different opinion.  After the results of the tests, I was informed that I had three blood clots in my outer vein.  I was given antibiotics and a list of doctors to see for the recommended surgery.
1	Sometimes the math of medicine is a little bit confusing and you have to be very careful not to make any mistakes.
1	I was being evaluated for high risk pregncy due to a blood clot early on.  I had done a lot of research prior to visiting the doctor so that I would have knowledge to understand what the doctors were going to recommend in relation to how my pregncy would progress and how my birth would be.
1	I was able to lose weight a few years ago when I realized that I needed to. I lost about 30 pounds, which was my goal. I accomplished this weight loss by avoiding junk food, eating more fruits and vegetables, and walking every day. I still follow these healthy routines so I can stay fit and healthy.
1	I did my own research on some skin conditions. After successful application of ointments I discovered during my research I felt quite competent about self-treatment of those skin conditions.
1	I cant think of any one specific incident.  There have been a few times I have administered first aid like the heimlich maneuver or recognized someone needed to go to the hospital because of a fever or difficulty breathing, etc.
-1	I worked in the service as a nurse aid and learned a lot about the basics
1	I was trying to figure out my results from a blood test.  Much of the information was abbreviated or included terms I was not used to, so I would use the internet to look up the definitions to help determine the results.
-1	I suffer from high blood pressure and obesity I have to monitor everything.
1	I woke up with a cramp in my leg one morning. I took a spoon full of mustard and the cramp went away within 2 minutes and never returned.
1	I was diagnosed about 10 years ago with possible cervical cancer.  The doctor sent me in for a myriad of tests.  I filly had to have surgery to remove the cells that were cancerous.  I followed up ahead of time on all the possible outcomes and any side effects.  Surgery was the best outcome to remove the cells and not have it spread.
1	There hasn't really been just one significant experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health and medical issues. There's just small things that I do to alleviate or resolve medical issues that pop up. For example, I take apple cider vinegar for my indigestion because I know that I have low stomach acid. And I take frequent breaks and move around to prevent my sciatica nerve from acting up.
-1	I care for my mother moderately. She is independent and usually takes care of herself but doesn't have information on important health facts. One afternoon she described to me how she had had difficulties pouring her coffee, she explained how she had to hold one arm with the other to even lift minimally. I insist recognized the symptoms of stroke. We went to the ER where they did find she had a stroke.
1	My fiance was out of town visiting family and he started feeling sick. Each day that I talked to him he sounded worse. I filly convinced him to go to an Urgent Care and he was diagnosed with an Upper Respiratory Infection.
1	I don't know a lot about health or medical issues.  When I have questions I refer to professiols or any other reliable source of information.
-1	When I was younger I had a terrible problem with heavy menstrual flow, cramps and fibroids. I did my own research, and worked with a conventiol and altertive health care professiol to obtain the results I needed to get rid of the problem. Today I am fine and in great shape.
1	Using online resources I determined that I had a zinc deficiency. So I purchased a zinc supplement and shampoo containing zinc to improve my general health. 
-1	i was shoot in the leg and i know to tie my leg up to stop the bleeding
1	The increasing pain, stiffness and swelling in my big toes and ankles was an indicator that I had a problem with arthritis, since it was persistent but fluctuated in intensity depending on the weather, not due to trauma or recent injury, and consistent with the development of arthritis in my aunt when she reached the age I'm at now.
-1	When I had my spil cord tumor I did a lot of research.It has come in handy with  neurologists I have seen over the years.For the fact some are just not experienced with that type of tumor.I have probably taught them a thing or two.
1	Getting preventive care and treatment.  Understanding the blood work data, the colonoscopy and all related.  To be able to know what I needed to improve on and to watch.
1	When I was told I had high cholesterol not only did I understand the changes I would have to make I also further researched the issue to make sure I was on the best diet and treatment possible and brought up with my doctor a couple of concerns I had. I was proactive in trying to understand this issue and with work, I did.
-1	When I started breaking out in like a rash and skin kept growing I thought it was psoriasis based on what I had seen before and I turned out to be correct when I went to a dermatologist.
-1	I whought I had a sinus infection, went to the doctor, and that was confirmed 
-1	I am learning about health and medical issues every day. I have several medical problems that I see a doctor about monthly and I frequently have to go to specialists for this test or that.
1	My children will frequently get sick, and my two year old recently had a slight fever of 99.6, but I simply gave him some over the counter Tylenol, and made sure he stayed hydrated with water and Gatorade. My six year old had the same conditions of fever, vomiting, and diarrhea. I knew it was probably a virus, and did not feel it was necessary to take him to the doctor for it.
-1	I received training as a home health aid and participated in certifications such as CPR and First Aid training.
1	Once I remember seeing a medical category on Jeoparody!, the game show. I think I got almost every answer.
1	My best friend found some thickening bellow her collarbone. I told her to immediately go to the doctor because I knew there's a big possibility that it's a breast cancer. It turned out to be nothing scary but the doctor told her that I gave her a good advice.
-1	We often have health fair's at our church and when i checked a child's temperature it was at 102. I knew this was kinda high and alerted the nurses. 
1	After an off-road motorcycle mishap I knew that my leg was seriously damaged.  My leg had been wrenched around under the heavy bike, and I had actually heard a sp.  Once we were able to get the motorcycle off my leg it was obvious to me that there was a serious fracture, perhaps a compound fracture, as any movement would result in a feeling of bone grating together.  I decided that the best thing to do was to keep my tall, heavy boot on to stabilize the lower leg.  I was uble to walk due to the pain, so my friend carried me to the shade so that I'd be out of the hot sun and we elevated the limb.  He went for help leaving me with food and water, I was hungry, but resisted eating much in case surgery would be necessary when I ended up in the hospital.
1	This is a tough question for me.  I dont ever remember an expeience that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  There were a few times when I knew that one of my children needed to see a doctor, but in these times, my knowledge was intuitive rather than inherant.
1	Not sure if this is what you are looking for but true story. A few years ago I experienced severe pain in my feet that lasted for weeks. I looked up the symptoms and was reasobly sure it was something called plantar fasciitis (sp?). It HURT. I went to my doctor and he agreed with my assessment. Unfortutely there doesn't seem to be an effective treatment other than stretching and not walking (or walking as little as possible) for many months to allow the muscles in the foot to heal. Near the end of the appointment my doctor offered me a shot of cortisone for the pain. I was surprised and promptly refused. The problem with the cortisone shot, in my opinion, is that it simply masks the pain and might lead me to overdo it during a time when I needed to rest, thus making the injury worse instead of better. It took over a year for the problem to go away. Even though I suffered through the pain I feel I made the right choice because the cortisone shot might have made the recovery last even longer!
1	After having a stress test done I am now informed about all the risks and causes of heart attack and stroke. I had a false positive stress test, but I feel that I have gained a lot of knowledge associated with the heart. Now I have a lot of knowledge and useful information to help take care of my heart and help my family take care of theirs.
1	A few years ago, I had to watch my mother die of a disease that should have been treated years before, but none of her doctors could ever diagnose it until it was too late. I found it appalling how little the medical professions knows and how much they say they know. It was left to me to care for her, almost without their help. I had to literally demand palliative care for her.
-1	Someone close to me started to freak out about a bump in their buttocks--from persol experience--that sounds like hemorrhoids. I was quite surprised that she was freaking out about such a thing, but it indeed turned out to be hemorrhoids. Another one that comes to mind is that a friend said he had abdomil issues and other related symptoms of appendicitis--I only thought of it because I did some research myself in fear of having it. When he went to his Doctor, it turns out I was correct.
-1	I was given a choice to get a flu shot I was told of all the side effects and I decided to get it.  Later I felt awful.  I called the doctor he stated that it happens sometimes.  I should just drink a lot of fluids and rest.
-1	when my boyfriend was complaining about symptoms in his hands, i suggested that he had carpal tunnel. i knew this because my mom had similar issues with her hand/wrist and it was very likely carpal tunnel. he went to the doctor and he indeed had carpal tunnel. 
1	I have a family with a medical background on both sides of the clipboard.  This survey is mostly simple math.
1	Knowledge of my medical condition has helped me to avoid putting myself in a situation where I would be endangered. I know that I will put myself at risk if I do certain things that would increase my heart rate. I also need to slowly raise my health level through proper eating and strengthening myself to make my heart work less. Therefore by overhauling my nutrition and by avoiding those situations I have demonstrated knowledge of health issues. 
1	My family has a long history of medical issues, primarily autoimmune diseases. It has been imperative we stay as healthy as possible as many doctors are not knowledgeable in this field. Treatment is typically left to us and in several cases had better medical knowledge been obtained, lives would have been extended. One family member was lost due to a medical mistake, another to incorrect diagnoses, and another has had quality of life severely impaired because of incorrect diagnoses. I struggle with my own health and have two children with a complex medical history. I have also become the primary caregiver to my mother who is now severely impaired. If I am not fully aware and knowledgeable then the risks are simply too great. It's worth it to me to learn and understand all that I possibly can.  
1	I try to stay abreast of my health knowledge on different topics. I especially try to stay abreast of my own health issues and concerns. I read on online and see what the current news is in the medical industry.
1	I am working to lower my A1C count due to being pre-diabetic along with trying to lower my cholesterol. I am exercising and cutting back on sweets. I am also cutting back on my fat intake. I have been working on this for the past 5 months. I will be tested again in one month. I have read many articles and talked with my doctor regarding these tests.
-1	I spent a half a year researching if I had diabetes or not.  I found out a lot of things that contributed to diabetes, so I lost weight and balanced out my hormones. I also looked into people who reversed diabetes.  This saved me from the disease. 
1	An experience in my life that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I researched an upcoming procedure for my husband and got information about it and gave him suggestions as to things to bring up with his doctor.
1	One of my coworkers sees the same doctor as I do.  She was telling me about a recent visit and had a question about some of her blood work.  I was able to answer her questions because I had experience in similar blood work.
1	I helped to take care of my diabetic brother when he was little. I had to use nutritiol labels to determine how many carbs he had eaten and then figure out how many units of insulin he needed to take. 
1	The best example that I can think of was when my young daughter started having bed-wetting issues long after she had learned to go to the bathroom herself. The doctor did some tests and ruled out a UTI, which I was familiar with, then wanted to rule out constipation. She did this by doing some x-rays on my daughter. Sure enough, she just hadn't been drinking enough water and was really constipated, which was putting pressure on her bladder. This whole thing was pretty easily understandable, and was explained well by our pediatrician.
1	It was a time in summer, when one of my friend started feeling dizziness while playing in sun. We helped him to get him under the shadow and had him drank some water and after that he was felling better.
1	When I helped a family member that had very serious issues I took the family member to all the medical appointments and stayed in the hospital through all the surgeries with them.  I don't know if that demonstrates knowledge but I learned a lot of knowledge doing it I think.
1	My mother was having back problems, anemia and hair loss. The doctors didn't know what was wrong. I did my own research and asked the doctor to test for a genetic condition that was not common in our racial group . The doctor agreed to run the test and it turns out, my mother had the condition, also so do I.
1	I think you have to have somewhat of an understand of medicine otherwise you can't trust if your doctor is right or wrong 
-1	When I was diagnosis with cerebellar ataxia.  I never heard of this disorder nor did anybody I know.  I have done a lot of research over the past five years including a couple facebook groups.
1	When my mother was diagnosed with stage 3 endometrial cancer I knew there wasn't a study or trial for her to participate in because I was transcribing for an oncologist at the time. 
-1	just what i eat and looking at labels. trying to stay within the 2k calorie of a daily intake of food and try to eat more healthy.
1	An experience was when I was having high blood pressure. I am at a normal weight and exercise regularly. I went to the doctor and he wanted to put me on some pills which I read had bad side effects. I went home and read about it and found that l-arginine lowers your blood pressure and since it's an amino acid there's no side effect. I started taking it and my blood pressure got lowered and I didn't need to take the pills that were prescribed.
1	One time I was stabbed in the. Because I knew that it had hit one of the main arteries I new to go to the hospital immediatley.
-1	When i had a stomach bug. I knew that steps i had to take in terms of what kind of food i should eat and which ones to avoid.
-1	I have moderate experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I am somewhat confident.
1	When my wife was pregnt I felt like I was able to understand and comprehend all that was being discussed about the pregncy.
1	I went to the doctor for a cut on my hand, I needed stitches but the blood wouldn't stop. The doctor didn't know why and was about to give me medicine to make my blood clot. But I told him that I had taken aspirin. I knew that aspirin thins my blood and makes it harder to clot. So I told him and it saved me from having to take medication I didn't need. 
1	I had a colonoscopy at 32, that showed and removed several polyps, two pre-cancerous. I was told to have a repeat colonoscopy every 3 years, even though my 2nd generation family has a genetic defect that causes a greater, aggressive risk, and the fact that I was only 32. I researched the subject and decided to have one every year. Good thing, because for the next eight years, they always found some. Now I have one every three, if they don't find anything.
1	I took my mother to a health clinic to have them look at a problem she was having with her foot. there was a sign on the wall telling people they should report when they have been outside the country. I asked the doctor why weren't they interested when and if people traveled to Florida and may have been bitten by a mosquito. she agreed that that would be a good idea, but I doubt they printed up new posters or asked anyone then or now
1	I had premature children that were 10 weeks early and were male. The fact that they were male they had a lower survival rate then if they were female infants since female infants tend to be stronger. My sons were on oxygen and until they were down to 20% and weened off a respirator they were at risk of vision and other health conditions.
1	I was able to successfully perform the Heimlich maneuver for a gentleman that needed my help.  I was able to successfully pass CPR courses which demonstrates knowledge of medical issues.
-1	I have administered first aid and CPR to several individuals 
1	I had gone to the doctor for a checkup and was told that my cholesterol was borderline high and that we needed to keep an eye on it, and that I might have to take medication. I laughed and said that I was not going to take cholesterol lowering meds, and that I could make it go down just by changing my diet. the Dr. gave the usual spiel about genetics and how that was not always possible and I went on my way. A couple of months, at most, later, after eating mainly vegan, I went back and it had gone down 20-some points. I know a lot about the things that contribute to chronic conditions, and what to do to help the body heal.  
1	As a medical professiol, my everyday experiences are  a constant testament of my medical expertise and knowledge given my involvement in patient care. 
-1	when i noticed symptoms in one of my friends and told him to see a doctor 
-1	I have endometriosis and had some of my female organs removed but some were left in me. I was able to recognize the signs and symptoms of the endometriosis flaring up and getting worse on my own and was able to make an appointment and my doctor confirmed I was correct. 
1	My brother has type I diabetes. He recently came to visit and in the morning he was unresponsive. I knew that his blood sugar must be low because he was incoherent and combative. I called 911 and when the paramedics arrived I explained what had happened and they were able to quickly check his blood sugar and give him a glucose drip to bring it back up. 
1	My experience is based on news stories, persol experiences, family experiences, now outdated first aid courses, and college biology. I have used my knowledge to determine when I or a family members need to go to a doctor or emergency room and to reassure and explain  information to my niece and nephew. 
-1	I have 4 children and all of them have issues with breathing. I gain more knowledge as each child disease progresses.
-1	I had a doctor present to me various things about my check up. I understood what my blood pressure was and things like that. Just had a good common awareness of the information.
1	Being pregnt and giving birth to my children gave me good experiences with medical fields and medical documentation. 
1	"I'm not really terribly interested in ""wet"" sciences. Because, frankly, ""Eww."" I understand what I read and I don't leave the health of my children to chance, but I don't go out of my way to seek out new medical knowledge."
1	I was in a long term relationship with someone with Type 1 diabetes, so I learned a lot about insulin resistance, carbohydrates, and the glycemic index. 
1	i have been around the medical field for about 20 years, but when it comes to being a patient i am like a novice. it is very hard for me to process being sick, i mostly have denial over it. as far as knowledge, i now a lot about health from working in health related fields.
1	I would get strep throat regularly in the past. I don't exhibit the common symptoms associated with it, but I knew I had it. I made the doctor take a culture. It confirmed strep. The next time I had it, I opted to NOT take antibiotics, stay home for 3 days with lots of hydrations and Advil to keep my fever down. My hopes were to get over it and build a tolerance to it. It worked and I have not had strep throat in the decade since. Most recently, after breaking out with a skin rash of sorts, I figured out it was dyshidrotic eczema and went to the doctor. Without me telling her what I thought it was, she diagnosed it the same. This has also happened with a less common diagnosis of Bells Palsy and other issues.
1	I don't know much about the medical issues I have before I'm dealing with them in the hospital. I've had an infected foot that I didn't know how to treat or take care of and it got out of hand and landed me in the hospital. 
1	I was told that a hysterectomy was necessary for fibroids.  I knew this was not accurate information.  Based on my own research and listening to doctors who specialized in this area.
-1	When my father had a stroke
-1	My sister is training to be a nurse so I have some kind of history with medical knowledge
-1	I once worked in a retail pharmacy. I was able to learn plenty about medicines and medical conditions. I also knew information prior to that by reading books.
1	"After my third in-vitro cycle resulting in no viable follicles via aspiration, I knew something was very wrong.  I knew I would need help getting pregnt, but to have ZERO follicles aspirated after seeing 18 on the ultrasound was very unusual.  I saw many specialists about the problem and their best answer was ""You're a medical anomoly"".  I did research myself, and thought that maybe I had what's called Luteinized Unruptured Follicle Syndrome.  When I brought that information to the ""specialists"" they agreed that must be my issue."
1	I once had an experience of helping someone who sustained a leg injury.  I was able to provide a support mechanism for the leg until the ambulance came.
1	When I had my wrist surgery last year. I have a rare wrist condition and I was able to interpret several medical jourl entries on kienbocks disease.
1	I have learned about different things from the internet. That way I know whether something will pass quickly or if I should go to the doctors. Thus, I haven't had to go to the doctors in years.
-1	My sister has epilepsy. I have gotten her through many seizures while waiting for an ambulance to show up. She had one seizure that was really bad once and i turned her on her side and held her until the shaking stopped and she started to wake up right as the ambulance got there.
-1	After having a child I gained over fifty pounds, because of this weight and family history of diabetes I knew that it was important for my mental and physical health to eat healthy and exercise.
1	A dentist was wanting to do serial extractions on my son.  I was worried about the wrong teeth getting pulled.  I got online and printed out diagrams of teeth labeled with numbers and letters, then I double and triple checked with the hygienist to make sure everything would get done right.
1	My mother was in the hospital. I had spoke to her on the phone and she sounded fine. I arrived at hospital about 1 1/2 hours later. She was lethargic and her pulse was 40. I knew from dealing with different things while taking care of her that something had changed in the time I had talked to her until I got to hospital. I talked to the nurse who told me she had had her morning medicine. I ask to see her chart of exactly what she had been given. The nurse wasn't happy about that but I assured her I wasn't trying to cause trouble I just wanted to find out what was wrong with my mother. After looking at her chart I realized she had been given too much of one of her medicines. There was an error by doctor or hospital in what she actually took. I immediately called pharmacy spoke to pharmacist, explained what had happen and had him look up what to expect. It wasn't an amount that would cause any damage, just make her feel bad for awhile. I had to take control as all the nurse seemed concerned about was who's fault it was. I explained to her...mistakes happen..we're human but when you make one or one is made you try to correct it asap.
1	"I had surgery on my abdomen which left a scar from my waist to mid-chest. I developed a hernia soon after. Someone asked me what happened since they could see me ""stomach"" sticking out so far. I was able to explain that surgery weakened muscle and other tissue resulting in a hernia. "
1	There was a time when i saw my brother bleeding and i knew i had to stop the blood
1	I have offered advice before to a friend regarding dehydration. I let them know the effects and that it is important to drink water.
1	During my first pregncy my blood pressure continued to rise in my last weeks. Suddenly I began to have rapid swelling in my legs, hands, and face. I knew that this could lead to a massive complication and risk the life of my and my child. I told my doctor my symptoms, she ran some tests, and I was induced the next day. 
1	I can't really think of any examples.
1	I took a C class a few years ago when I was exploring different things, and I thought it might come in handy to know this stuff anyway. I already knew most of the things on the tests, but it was good practice to know how to take BP and the other measurements. Other than that, I can only say I usually do research on a condition that a close relative might have, so I can send them the info if they're interested. But it's frustrating to not have access to some of the medical research materials online.
1	When I was 14 my father was diagnosed with lung cancer and died 3 months later after having gone through both chemo and radiation treatments. When I was 24 my mother died of lung cancer after having fought it for years going through numerous surgeries and chemo treatments. When I was 25 one of my siblings died of a massive heart attack. When I was 34 I lost another sibling who died of a heart condition. When I was 39 my oldest brother died from a heart attack. There have been numerous health problems in my family and I make it a point to stay educated and informed about health topics.
-1	I could just tell from having bronchitis in elementary school, that once again in High School it came back. The cough was a different cough than just being very head-cold sick. 
1	When my grandmother was in the hospital, she seemed extremely out of it.She wasn't able to feed herself or move. I told the staff and they told me that she had experienced a minor stroke.
-1	when i was getting checked for my blood pressure i knew what it meant when they told me the measurements 
1	Just as much as the normal person I think. I take care of a Type 1 Diabetic child so that has to count for something. 
-1	Knowing that I recently had a blood test of  Vitamin D, and the results from lab stated in bold and labeled Low,  and I had been feeling little depressed and totally not functioning to my full capacity, especially with memory, I'm thinking it may be a result of low serotonin, and I myself had some previous prescription of Vitamin D, and within a few days I after taking, I was feeling a lot better.   I'm not sure what to do about the letter I received from the doctor's office stating my results were all normal,  I don't have exact figures but my level was like a 1.1  and  normal was starting over 3,  anyway.  With being a past medical transcriptionist, I have learned meanings of a lot of medical terms, no way an expert, just general of course.  
1	I could read and understand the calories in shopping for nutritiol shakes and food at the grocery store. One of the symptoms of sarcoidosis was weight loss. I lost 35 pounds very quickly. I had to find the highest calorie food and drink to restore my energy and weight.
-1	When I got pregnt with my child I had to go for checkups frequently. Every time I went to the doctor I learned  many things about pregncy and general health.
1	When my boyfriend became diabetic I noticed a body odor. My Mom had also been diabetic and I recognized it. He was vehemently denying it and I filly got him to go to the Dr. who said it was pre-diabetes.  
1	I cared for my parents who both had cancer. I studied medical terminology. I volunteered at a hospital. I have read a lot about health care issues.
1	I once took a friend to the emergency room because he was experiencing somewhat significant abdomil distress.  It turned out to be severe heartburn, but I think a 'better safe than sorry' approach is worthwhile overall.
1	My first son supposedly had a tumor, hydrocephalus, and TB in the first 18 months of his life.  He actually had none of those things but I know the worry involved, shortened my life by many years. He is now 22 and normal. And they told me he might have Down's before he was born.
-1	I rarely have to follow any particular disorders or discuss them, except for diabetes occasiolly, discussing it with my parents.
-1	I was once diagnosed with pre-diabetes. I took this information and purchased  blood sugar testing kit to monitor and reduce my blood sugar. Within a month, I was able to significantly reduce my sugar level to well within a normal range.
-1	After the Christmas party in 2012, I had a severe flu that took a couple of weeks to heal. All of the symptoms of flue went away but the cough stayed for more than a month, my whole body was sore from coughing.  Only until I realized myself that the new blood pressure medication I was taking could be an ace inhibitor, of which I was educated by my younger sister who is a nurse.  I called the doctor's office to clarify, and it was then, doctor replaced my medication with Losartan Potassium and the coughing went away immediately.
1	I was told by my doctor that I was allergic to something, and I knew it was ragweed just from reading about reactions and figuring out where and when I would get them.
-1	When my father was told that he had a heart problem and they were going to put a tube in his vain to open it up and when they said that if that doesn't work they were going to put a stint in his artery.
1	I have high blood pressure, I noticed one day that my blood pressure was above 190. I quickly went to the hospital because I know that a very high blood pressure can lead to having a stroke. 
1	One time I was shopping in a supermarket and I noticed and old man slumped over his cart holding his chest. It was immediately clear to me that he was probably having a heart attack. I contacted the store clerk and she called 911. The ambulance arrived and the EMT's confirmed that he was having a heart attack.
-1	I have been suffering from tummy ache for a long time and I was doing home remedies for atleast a year. This was going for a while and filly one day I started to research and figured out I might be suffering from Appendicitis and so got scared went to the doctor got checked and he said this is the fil stage please get a Admitted to the hospital for the surgery. 
1	A few years ago, a nurse practitioner prescribed buspirone for my anxiety. I reminded him that psychiatric drugs in general tend to affect me much more strongly than they do most people, and suggested that I should start at the lowest dose possible. He wrote the prescription for the second lowest dose available. When I got home with the medication, I broke the tablets into quarters for the first week, then into halves for the next week. I didn't have any adverse effects, but did not really see any positive effects either, so on the third week, I took whole tablets as prescribed. I got very useated, extremely dizzy, and found it nearly impossible to stay awake. I continued at the recommended dose, thinking that maybe these were side effects that would wear off with time, but they persisted. I tried to reach the nurse practitioner, but he was on vacation and I didn't feel comfortable discussing it with anyone else in the office, so I went online and looked up information about the medication. I learned that what I was experiencing were symptoms of a severe overdose of the medication. Going to an emergency room was recommended, but I felt certain that no one would listen to me if I tried to explain my drug sensitivity and that they'd probably think I took some illegal drug. I'm aware that some psychiatric drugs recommend tapering off rather than stopping abruptly, so I looked for this information online and found that while it's not recommended to stop abruptly, in some situations it may be necessary. I decided that this was one of those situations, so I stopped taking the medication. The symptoms decreased appreciably within several hours, and though there was some lingering dizziness, everything else was more or less back to normal within a few days.
1	 I was diagnosed with HPV. Received several biopsies. My sister had a brain disease and brain surgery. My boyfriend was diagnosed with stage 3 lymphoma and underwent chemotherapy. 
1	I worked for a large cancer research center for a long time as a software engineer. I was never really interested in the biological or medical aspects of this, but one can't really avoid learning and experiencing. One aspect of my experience involved real time data acquisition and visualization of pap smears. Since I wrote the program, I was quite adept at stating the pap value from the plot.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health is that working out makes me look and feel healthier. Prior to doing cross training I felt lethargic and dull. After I have been doing the workout I feel healthier and am full of energy. My knowledge told me that if I want to stop feeling lethargic then I need to work out. I gained this knowledge through media and websites that I most recently frequent.
-1	I had white spots in the back of my throat with a terrible throat pain. I knew already that I had strep throat from the past. I knew to gurgle salt water and get to the doctor for antibiotics.
-1	We have some potential issues with one of our children when they were in eutero, so I had to read a lot about a particular condition. I feel like I gained a lot of knowledge. In addition to this, my experience in graduate school helped me to understand test designs, so I know about how effective medications are.
1	Last year when I fainted. It happens from time to time and I could tell it was happening from the world blackening from the outside in. I was in the kitchen and started lowering myself before my body gave out so I wouldn't fall and hit my head and I started calling my boyfriends me since he was home with me. I already told him some years ago that this happens and just get me some water and maybe a cold towel for when I wake back up.
1	Cannot recall
1	I was at the scene of a car accident. The occupants in the car were not in any further immediate danger. Thus, I instructed others arriving on the scene not move any of the occupants in the car until the paramedics arrived. I know if someone is injured and improperly moved it could result in furthering the injury significantly. 
-1	Humans have long sought advice from those with knowledge or skill in healing. Paleopathology and other historical records, allow an examition of how ancient societies dealt with illness and outbreak
1	I looked up symptoms I was experiencing due to pain in my leg, and found it was most likely cellulitis. I went to the emergency room. When I was seen by a doctor, he concluded the same.
-1	When I was informed that I was borderline diabetes, but I had the opportunity of not  to be placed on medication if I lose weight and ate healthier. I had a month to show the doctor that I was capable of taking this matter into my hand, and I did. I changed my lifestyle for the best
1	"When I was 37 years old, I discovered a flat but palpable tumor under my  left breast. It was found to be ""hot"" and otherwise suspicious, plus I had other small spots show up in the mammogram in my right breast. Biopsies were done and no cancer found, but the surgeon, at the time, recommended bilateral, subcutaneous mastectomies. After talking with my husband, my PCP, and others, plus doing a lot of research, I filly decided to go ahead. One year later, I was referred to a reconstructive surgeon who placed silicone implants under both breast flaps.  I still have those same implants and I'm now 81. I've had no problems with them. Of course, the various doctors get the credit for good work and incredible support for me, but I also take credit for studying the issue and making a hard decision that I feel helped keep me safe from cancer all these years."
-1	When I went to the ER for some back spasms, they wanted to give me 10ml of morphine. I'd never had it, but I knew that I was easily susceptible to medications and their effects, so I told them to please start at 2, and we could work our way up. By the time we hit 4, I was pain free, but I was also barely able to walk on my own. I'm scared to know what it would have been like if they have given me 10. 
1	I was supposed to play golf one morning, but when I woke up I discovered that my back was bothering me. I tried loosening it up with some light stretching exercises, but that didn't help. I knew that the violent twisting involved in a golf swing could aggravate my back and cause real injury, so I cancelled my tee time and allowed my back to rest. Ialso used a heat pad to it, and by the next week everything was better and I was able to play.
-1	discusses health and illness in relation to social institutions such as family, employment.
1	I noticed a place on my husband's face that was diagnosed as a sun spot by 2 internists and a dermatologist. It was very small and was not growing on the surface. I had my husband go to a new dermatologist, who also thought it was nothing, and have it removed. It was cancer! Took 2 cuttings to remove all cells and many trips to a reconstruction plastic surgeon to fix his face. We are now down to two trips a year for skin checks and have been clear for almost 5 years. I do not know why I felt so strongly about this spot, but I had my husband insist it be taken off even if it turned out to be nothing. Melanoma is nothing to fool around with. 
1	A friend of mine had a health concern regarding her surprising hair loss. I gave her advice and medical knowledge I'd researched myself regarding the topic. I too had had to same concern regarding myself, so I felt confident letting her know. When she reported to me that she had gone to see her physician and they repeated exactly what I had mentioned to her, I felt proud of myself.
1	I had a niece who got into a motorcycle accident. When we went to the hospital the doctor told us in a long winded medical speak that she was already dead and they were just keeping her body alive to harvest the organs. 
1	I was able to check my son's through and saw that his tonsils were red and had puss on them.  I thought he might have tonsillitis and it ended up he did.
1	My mother recently beat breast cancer, I was able to follow along with the doctors/surgeons enough to give her advice. 
1	I experienced the onset of a sleep disorder that significantly affected my life in many ways.  I sought medical help, and also sought assistance from a variety of other sources, all of which were helpful.
1	I went through dengue before because I visited a country with many mosquitoes, and there was a time I shared this experience. When people started asking me more about it, I felt like I knew everything there is to know about it since I did my research after being sick and I also know what I went through. So even for that one medical issue, I thought I had a lot of related and useful knowledge.
1	I had to study diabetes and diet in depth to be able to choose effective treatments. I had to learn about the medications. I had to change my diet drastically. 
-1	I have a sister that had a heart condition and have to have an operation.  I was very knowledgeable about her symptoms and what she went through.  A close friend of mine, began to experience some of the same symptoms.  I advised her to see a doctor as I thought it sound very much like my sisters. She was diagnosed with a heart condition afterwards and also had surgery,
1	I was having significant issues with sleeping, staying awake, headaches, extremely fogged thinking, body aches, etc. I did a green juice fast for 16 days after doing some research online. On the 12-day of the fast, every problem disappeared and has not returned, even after 5 years.
-1	I have never had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	By reading about any abnormal thing I experience, I find out about the allergies I have from the different food or drugs I take, while the doctor did not give me the right answers to my questions.
1	A few times at work, I fell asleep in the morning, and as I woke up, knew I was pected a sleep condition. I looked in a medical book and online and discobered it is Sleep Paralysis.awake but couldn't talk or move my body. I susy
1	I discovered at 18 what type of mental disorders I had. I'd been experiencing these extreme ailments since 12. Because I had had the symptoms for so long, it was extremely easy to research the information online when I found out the specific terms.
1	I have begun using essential oils, and I have used them on many different ailments and problems. One thing I used them to clear up was using lemon oil with my water once a day to cleanse my body and my kidney numbers became much better.
-1	I have given an Reading of my health screening for my annual check up I was able to understand the sugar and cholesterol reading and was able to understand if I was at risk or not
-1	I have always been in and out of the doctors due to health concerns 
-1	fill out all my own forms, filled out my healthcare forms
1	My father had a stroke and was diagnosed with high cholesterol. He was put under medication and in order to help him lower his cholesterol I have to ensure that he abstain from some food and have more food that will reduce his cholesterol. I googled to find out what to do to keep his cholesterol in check.
-1	whenever i have any issue i usually ask my dad or my brother. when I got chicken pox I knew that i have to be at home because it is a contagious virus and its symptoms i:e fever and loss of appetite
1	I witnessed an individual hit by a car while riding a bicycle.  I immediately responded to the victim, provided treatment for shock and for superficial cuts and bruises.  I stabilized their head and lower leg which they stated was in significant pain and contacted an ambulance.  
1	I have a daughter that frequently get bronchiolitis when she catches colds. So I know to listen for wheezing or a croup cough when she gets sick, and then administer albuterol in her nebulizer
1	when noticing the way that my body was reacting and breaking out that I knew something was wrong so I researched it and brought it to the attention of my doctor and gave him my opinion what it may be
1	I do not have much knowledge of health or medical issues except for what I have experienced. One thing I have experienced is gestatiol diabetes, and I am now able to help people by telling them how I felt and how I maged my blood sugar.
1	Having to go see a specialist doctor and being able to converse quite easily with them about various conditions I had was due to research and learning as much as I could so as to have at least a general knowledge base to work with. I've also on several occasions answered some friends questions when they asked about what I think might be a problem with them, and I was either right (from having experienced the same thing myself) or was pretty close with my thoughts on the issue at hand.
-1	I google my symptoms before going to a doctor. As the doctor examined me, I used my new found knowledge from the web to try to get the best medical attention possible.
1	I had persistent pain around my tail bone area from bad lifting. I asked my doctor if the pain could be due to referred pain from hurting my lower back. My doctor agreed it was possible
1	My chronic pain condition (SIJD) is hard to diagnose and sometimes not believed, so I've had to do a lot of my own research and advocate heavily for myself by presenting information on the subject.
1	I have moved a lot and I have a chronic illness so the fact that I know exactly what my condition is and what works best for me allows me to work with different doctors to make sure that they are treating me with what works best for me.  I can talk to doctors using medical terms that they use so they understand that I know exactly what is wrong.
1	I am currently working in benefits field in HR so i am starting to understand the variety a little more, otherwise i have had many family illnesses in my life.
1	When my son was sick and I treated him better than the doctor.
1	When I found out I had Crohn's disease I had to, with the help of my doctor, determine what my best options were to mage the disease.  I had to use a bit of trial and error (one medication gave me acute pancreatitis), and find the best dose for myself, to keep the disease at bay. 
1	I studied athletic training in college, and I've found that useful in emergent situations throughout life. If someone falls and cuts themselves or breaks something, I am confident enough to do what needs to be done immediately and then decide if they need to seek further medical attention. I recently helped an older gentleman who had tripped, fallen, and split his head. I knew to limit mobility until help arrived, and I knew to watch for signs of concussion (i.e. vomiting, blackout). I was able to help limit the loss of blood while we waited for the ambulance and kept him comfortable.
-1	I had high cholesterol and did not want to take the prescribed medicine because i do not like taking any medicine at all so i changed my diet and dranked grapefruit and water. When i went back for a dr visit my cholesteroll was mormal so i was taken off the meds.
-1	This was just recently I had kidney pain. I knew that that was flank pain and then blood in the urine. Meaning I would have to have a CT scan and they would give me antibiotics from me looking the information on the internet and when I went to the doctor they did exactly that.
1	I'd say the closest is learning more about diet in order to get in better shape.  Diet is key and has so much to do with your health.
-1	I had a headache last night and took an aspirin. Then today I did these math questions about health issues.
-1	I had to write a research paper on diabetes and I did well on it.
1	When I was watching a medical documentary meant for health professionals, they were saying medical words that I easily understood like tachycardia, hypoglycemic. etc
1	Had a doctor tell me I needed a prescription for gestational diabetes. I denied taking it and controlled it just fine using diet and exercise on my own.
-1	I can't really think of any? This isn't something that comes up a lot
1	I do not have any significant health experiences. I am just observant and retain the knowledge I learn with my routine visits to the doctor. I also listen to other people's stories about their doctor visits. 
1	A friend of mine was in a very tense situation with her boyfriend and starting having shortness of breath. Eventually she was saying she was having chest pains and that she was having a heart attack. I told her to breathe through her nose and out through her mouth and started talking to her about her situation, she eventually calmed down and said she didn't feel chest pain anymore.
-1	being sick on multiple occasions and solving with hoe remedies instead of going to dr
1	I used math which I ma not that good at. I typically do not need math when figuring my health information. However, a Doctor does and that is why I trust a Doctor's math skills beyond my own and trust the Doctor to explain things that I do not fully understand.
1	I have not had any experience that I was as if knowledgeable when it comes to issues in medicine.
-1	Back when I went to my doctor for a check up of my pregnancy, He made a prescription of vitamins to take and I told the doctors the ones that I had in min and he was surprise that I knew so much about it. I tol him I read a lot.
1	Helping my relative navigate their new diagnosis by pointing them in the direction of resources
1	My wife was about to have heart surgery and was sure she would die. I told her the success rate was 98 % for her operation due to 2 % dying from anesthesia intolerance. Since she had recently tolerated general anesthesia, she should not be concerned about that issue.
1	I looked up information on new treatments for a condition I have. I then asked my doctor about each of them, and whether they were applicable to me.
1	I used math. I would add the the numbers, divide, maybe subtract, sometimes multiply to figure out the percentages. My knowledge came from school. I think this was all basic algebra. 
1	My mother always want me with her when she takes medical exams because she knows I'm good at understanding what doctors says and I always ask relevant questions.
1	When I had high blood pressure I knew I needed to remove stress, exercise and eat well.  I was able to lower it without taking medication. 
1	Years ago, my brother wondered why he was skinnier than I am, even though we ate just about the same amount of food. I used an online calculator to get an estimate of the minimum amount of calories he needs to maintain his weight. Upon comparing it to mine, he noticed that although we ate the same amount of calories, his maintenance calories needed were higher than mine.
1	I went to the doctors about one issue and the doctor brought up another issue I was already aware of. I told them some of the things I already knew about the separate issue and they seemed impressed with my knowledge.It made me feel like I was in charge of and aware of my own health.
1	I felt a pop in my knee and it swelled up and I couldn't walk for days. I went online and figured out based on comparing my research to my symptoms that I likely tore my ACL. Sure enough when I went to the doctor he referred me to an orthopedic surgeon who gave me a MRI and confirmed that I had torn my ACL.
1	My sister has MS and I have been the primary person seeking out treatments and getting her into trials.I have to understand what is out there and if it is an option.
-1	To be honest i cant recall the last time i demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. This would have to be the most recent time that i can recall.
1	These are easy calculations. Basic percents and common sense calculations.
1	I can't think of anything like this.
-1	My doctor was considering putting me on medication for high blood pressure and I was scheduled for an appointment to see her. When I did see her, I requested that she put me on a specific medication called Losartan since I did research on the medications my health insurance covered that had the least side-effects. There were also some other minor health benefits that might result from taking Losartan, which made the choice quite clear. My doctor is normally quite willing to listen to me and is quite reasonable and agreed to write me a prescription for Losartan.
1	I demonstrate knowledge of health and medical issues in my work every day. Whether it is caring for my own children or the patients I care for every day.
1	I was working in a commercial kitchen with volunteer staff and someone cut their finger while chopping vegetables. They were a bit freaked out but I told them to put pressure on the wound to stop the bleeding until we could get them to a medical tent. It worked and they were pretty much fine after being stitched up.
1	I reminded my father, gently, that medicine is mostly preventative nowadays. Not a great example, but it's all I could think of.
1	When I went to see my dermatologist about a rash I had on my face, he wanted to prescribe me antibiotics. But, I insisted on anti-fungals because I had researched the rash online several times before meeting with my doctor, and I knew that if the infection was fungal, the antibiotics would make it worse. He looked some things up and eventually he reluctantly agreed, and I was eight. The rash was cured.
1	When my mother had cancer we did a lot of research. Everything that we found matched what we ended up hearing from the doctors. How the decease took its course did also. This showed my experience in gaining and having knowledge of medical issues.
1	I had an issue with my stomach and quickly realized what was wrong because of past experience with the same issue. I went to the doctor and was told to follow the same regimen as last time to correct it. I knew exactly what she was talking about and felt very familiar with it
1	I began having pain in my feet. It was a sharp, burning electrical pain. I believed it to be neuropathy from having had diabetes. I went to the doctor and got checked out and he confirmed that was indeed what I was suffering from. 
-1	I know about high pressure.
-1	I visited a doctor for yearly checkup. They told me about a condition I might have and recommended an additional visit. I looked up online about the condition but I did not see that I had any of the symptoms. As time went on I continued to be in good health.
1	Talking to a psychologist I tested him and was able to humble him because I know more than he does about what we were discussing.
1	When I was pregnant I did lots of research and new what I wanted for the birth. 
1	When my youngest son was showing sign of developmental delays I new what questions to ask and where to seek therapy for him because my older son had had similar issues.
1	My father had a brain tumor, it was a Glioblastoma. It was not found until it was very large and even with surgery they could not do much with it. I spent the next month learning all I could about that form of tumor and the available treatments. I spent days trying to find any trials or experimental treatments that might work. I found one at Duke and was able to get him enrolled but he passed away before the trial began. 
1	I have been taking steps to improve my blood pressure and blood sugar level by eating healthier and exercising. It has been working. I have been losing weight and my numbers have improved.
1	I think the most memorable experience I can think of is when I started experiencing acute pain in my general groin area & started frantically googling the symptoms, prior to going to an emergency room, which were actually very hard to narrow down. Through a process of elimination, I was able to determine I was suffering from acute epididymitis, which the ER doctor was actually very reluctant to diagnose given that I did not fit into the typical risk group/rarity of occurrence, but that is indeed ultimately what it was.
1	When I got epilepsy when I was a teen I was able to go online and get relevant information pertaining to my disorder.
-1	I had a dizzy headache. I knew right away it was a migraine. 
-1	I demonstrated knowledge of my health issues when I knew my back hurt due to poor posture and I told my doctor about it and he agreed.
1	I think it is determining the best solution for my anti depressants. It causes me to wake up early in the morning. I have done different things for a few weeks at a time to rule out various possibilities while trying to determine the solution.
-1	i felt nausious when i ate something foreign to me.  i thought it might be an allergic reaction and i went to the doctor and that was his diagnosis for me
1	Answering questions in this survey. I think I did fairly well and answered most of them correctly. There was one that I didn't understand (the one that had the p=0.05)
-1	I believed I had pneumonia because I read and researched about the symptoms. I went to the hospital and they confirmed it. 
1	I did some research on migraine headaches before going to the doctor and was able to have an intelligent conversation with them about it. I talked about potential treatments and asked questions. Together, my doctor and I came to a conclusion as to what the best course of treatment would be. 
1	When I was diagnosed with lymphoma, I had to undergo extensive counseling
-1	It could help me figure out the different ways health information is presented. That means I have a better grasp of my own health issues that might come up.
-1	I started having issues with my stomach. This included frequent heartburn and indigestion, and pain between my bellybutton and my breasts, throwing up acid, losing weight, and other things. During college, I had read about stomach ulcers. I had not looked up the symptoms yet because I always do that and I didn't want to get myself worked up. After dealing with it for awhile, I figured I had a stomach ulcer and I should probably look up how to go about treating it. Sure enough, when I looked it up, the symptoms matched 100% My grandmother was going to the doctor for her colon, and he was super friendly and I asked him about the possibility of me ACTUALLY having an ulcer. He asked me questions, asked me to show him where it was hurting--all for free. He said for me to keep doing what I was doing which was taking OTC Prilosec. He said the fact that I started that on my own was a big help in healing the ulcer. So, my knowledge from college led me to accurately start taking the right medicine without going to the doctor.
1	Well, I was talking with a pharmacist the other day and noted that modern psychiatry was weaker than other fields of medicine because the brain is so much more complicated than other organs. The pharmacist then went into a 10 minute long tirade about how much he agreed with me. 
1	i have a toddler, she had pin worms, i knew to go to the pharmacy and buy the medicine
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was when my friends newborn had not pooped in a day and a half. I suggested to slightly and gently insert a thermometer into the baby's bottom. Within seconds the baby was pooping, and my friend was a happy dad.
1	A friend of mine had pain around his genital area several years ago, and he said he had experienced the pain for a while. I knew it didn't sound normal, so I told him to get it checked because I thought it could be testicular cancer. It turns out it was after a screening and he had surgery to remove the cancer. I felt like I demonstrated a bit of knowledge there.
1	When I was given a prescription by my doctor for chronic back pain. I went through multiple tests at the hospital and had several talks with my doctor about pain management and exactly the root cause of the pain. I took the proper steps to rectify the situation and read all side effects of medication I was prescribed. I even switched my medication until I found something that was the most beneficial. 
-1	I can read nutrition labels and process what is on them.  I know the amount of exercise that is recommended.
-1	My doctor told me about high blood pressure and I already had a feeling that I did because I looked up the symptoms online.
1	My doctor was reading my blood pressure and started to explain to me about the readings. I already knew about the optimal levels of blood pressure and ways to keep my blood pressure in check.
1	Taking this survey and answering the questions shows my general understanding and is my most recent experience of this sort. 
-1	I researched information on thyroid issues and found that it is an immunity issue and caused my weakened immunity, which drs. never told me about.  I learned that there are many things I could do to try to help my thyroid issues without having to stay on medications.
-1	Counting calories to gain weight. I track my protein, carbohydrate, and fat intake to ensure I'm eating enough of each. I eat plenty healthy fat to maintain joint, heart, and brain heath.
-1	general life experiences over several years of living
-1	I don't get too much direct sunlight often and I notice that if this goes on for a while I'll get sick more easily due to a weaker immune system based on my research and there are other side effects to having a weak immune system through research and from there I became interested in vitamins and once I started I kept looking into different supplements and how they can strengthen my body and I gained lots of medical knowledge though that.
-1	I try to read everything the best of my ablity. Remember how my doctor describes my medical records and connect it to this.
-1	Just going on feeling
-1	In talking with my doctor I was able to avoid a dangerous surgery because I knew more of the risks.
1	I can't think of anything specific. I have a general knowledge of anatomy and medical terms, so usually there isn't a need to have anything explained to me. There never has been a specific case where I dazzled medical professionals with my knowledge.
-1	When I took an intro to health medicine class in college.
-1	"When my son was born, he looked ""off"" he was darker than my husband and I. I told my nurse there was something wrong with him and she said no, some babies are just darker. I said no because both my husband and I are white so he shouldn't be so ""tan"". Come to find out he had a rare congenital disease that is now managed with medication. "
-1	Research indicates that staying physically active can help prevent or delay certain diseases, including some cancers, heart disease and diabetes, and also relieve depression and improve mood. Inactivity often accompanies advancing age, but it doesn't have to. Check with your local churches or synagogues, senior centers, and shopping malls for exercise and walking programs. Like exercise, your eating habits are often not good if you live and eat alone. It's important for successful aging to eat foods rich in nutrients and avoid the empty calories in candy and sweets.
1	been taking blood pressure medication for 1 year now and learning about my health a I go
1	I have just generally always known when something is serious enough to need the hospital or doctor, and when you can treat at him. Your health isn't something to be risked.
1	Every member of my family who has got cancer and that number is 4, has died immediately after getting chemo treatment. I research the subject and found out it only has a 7% success rate and doing nothing has a 9% success rate. In light of that, I think we may have to reassess whether  this is the best way to treat this disease.
1	I was able to tell my doctor my symptoms and was diagnosed with exactly what I told them I thought I had. 
1	I was able to speak with a doctor on my mother's behalf of heard medical issue and then I was able to explain the response to her.
-1	When I was told that I had a urinary tract infection. I was aware of the symptoms and I had also had a UTI in the past years before, so I was pretty sure that was what I had. When my doctor diagnosed me, I was right, as expected.
1	The last time I went to the doctor I was aware of the reasons my blood pressure was high. I have to eat less red meat and exercise more.
1	I've been going to the doctors a lot because I was diagnosed with IBS. I feel like I'm well aware of gastrointestinal issues now. I didn't know what a colonoscopy was before. I know certain medications that I wouldn't have known before. For example, I currently take amitriptyline.
-1	"My mother is an RN and sometimes I can understand what she is saying to me when she speaks in her ""nurse"" talk."
1	My wife has been pregnant many times and she has miscarried several times.  I know what to look for on an ultrasound machine and have knowledge of how to use it by watching nurses operate the machine.  I know the things to look for right away.
1	When I was diagnosed with Celiac disease I was able to immediately understand what it was going to mean for me in the short term. The doctor explained to me what my long term risks were and what I needed to do to control the autoimmune disorder and I understood it. 
1	"I have LVH (left ventricle hypertrophy) as verified by a EKG and a subsequent echo cardiogram.  This was very scary, since i was so young when it was diagnosed.  It turns out its nothing major, but i need to just monitor it.  Apparently  a lot of ""bigger"" guys have it."
-1	I have been to see a doctor regularly all of my life so I have had the opportunity to ask a lot of questions. I also watch a lot of medical shows so I pick up a little information here and there.
-1	My mother had pains in her stomach and I told her it had to be ulcers. She went to the doctors and they told her she had stomach problems. Weeks later we found out she had ulcers.
-1	My fiance recently had a problem with his gallbladder. The day before he went to the hospital, his eyes and skin were turning yellow. I told him that something was wrong with his liver. We went to the hospital the next day and it turns out a gall stone was blocking his liver.
1	I have had some math classes which help with the percentages, but also basic biology classes and experience with some relatives and friends who have medical issues i have helped them with
-1	When I looked up information online that informed me of certain symptoms that were linked to diseases worse than I thought I had I was able to control my anxiety and find out the real problem instead of freaking out.
1	My daughter was born with a bi-cuspid aortic valve.   The involved the diagnosis as well as follow up appointments with a specialist. 
1	When my mother was diagnosed with ovarian cancer, i spent a lot of time researching medical treatments, chances of survival, and different facilties and the best doctors in the world in the field. I learned a lot about the cancer - the severity of it, the steps needed to take, what chemotherpahy does for the body, the success rates of chemo and the success rates of a successful tumor removal surgery. 
-1	This is so open ended. I took medication effectively. I reported side effects to my doctor. I take my blood pressure and check my weight regularly. I don't know.
1	The need for people to take supplements as a way of helping certain conditions. I once helped someone get rid of neuropathy by making sure they took B vitamins every day. It was gone in six months. They had a deficiency.
1	I was experiencing pain related to gout in my early 20's. I used the internet to lookup what it was and how to change what I eat to eliminate/reduce this pain. months later my doctor had confirmed to me that my self diagnosis of gout was correct and gave medication to basically eliminated 90% of the pain.
1	I was sitting on my couch one day and started to get itchy all over. I remembered that I had just mowed the lawn that morning and I have an allergic reaction to grass. I knew what was going on with my body after that.
1	I work in a medical setting at a university, and work closely with doctors every day. Over time, I have learned more about medicine, just by being around health professionals often. 
1	When I got pregnant, I figured it out right away because I knew what even the less common symptoms were.  I was able to figure out that I was pregnant due to my symptoms, and I was able to quickly get a doctor's appointment because I knew what kind of doctor I needed.  I also knew the time frame for the first appointment, and what would be happening at that appointment, so I was able to be prepared with any questions I had.
1	Mostly just times that my doctor has talked to me about things that I may or may not have wrong. I ask for clarification when I don't understand what he's saying but I typically understand on the first go through.
1	I have been sick before and gone to the doctor because I felt that something was different. I noticed my symptoms were slightly different from previous sickness and because of that I decided that seeing a doctor was a good idea. It turned out to be nothing, but I try to be careful when something is different from previous experiences.
-1	I was able to help a child with an allergy who was throwing up after consuming a bad food. She was also choking on her vomit and I was able to go through the protocol to help her at that moment and in the long term. 
1	During my first night on my Human Anatomy class, we had a pop quiz about general health issues. I got 97/ 100 questions correct. The next highest was 87, and the average was 56.
-1	I was beginning to have a lot of stomach issues and increased heart rate in certain situations. I was aware of the effects anxiety has on the body and went in to see a doctor to asses my situation and get the help I needed to determine whether the cause of my problems were due to anxiety, which they were.
-1	My wife had an allergic reaction to a medication and I informed her she needed to take Benadryl and call the doctor. 
-1	I read the internet. Seriously, math is cute but it comes down to communication. If a smart person can't explain something so others can understand it the they aren't actually that smart
-1	I took a class in college about health and Sociology, and there were many projects related to poverty and the ability to access medical care, and/or to even be able to afford it.  We learned lots of terms, and issues, and controveries related to health access in the country.
1	When I went with my mom to the doctor about her heart issues, the doctor asked her how often she feels stress. She told him not very often, but I told him that she stresses literally all the time. She sees it as routing worrying, so she didn;t think it was worth mentioning. 
-1	I can say that thanks to God I have never passed for a moment like that I hope not to do it I feel very young
-1	As someone that frequently gets kidneystones, I helped a friend realize they were suffering from kidneystones and gave the some suggestions as to how to reduce the pain. 
1	"After realizing I had a chronic disease, I looked up as much information as I could about it. I realized that through recent research, CFS is likely due to a malfunctioning immune system. It may be stuck in ""high gear"" after a viral infection, such as mono."
-1	I am not sure if I have the proper knowledge but once I thought I was having something like a heart attack. I was required to take a stress test and it was concluded that I was fine. It may have been extreme pain from something else but it was not my heart. So that would be the most extensive medical anything I have ever undergone at this point in my life. 
1	I really don't know if there is a specific instance of any importance. I guess when I check online and I diagnose what I have and it turns out to be correct.
1	I was able to have an intelligent conversation with my doctor about my thyroid levels. I had already been to doctors for the problem before and had had them explained to me briefly, so I already knew something about the subject.
-1	When I was 22, I had shingles. Before I got shingles, I had a friend that experienced it when he was 9. That was how I knew I had shingles. So I went to the doctor and I told her I think I have shingles. She told me I was right and that I do have shingles.
-1	I was able to diagnose my daughters epilepsy before we took her to a doctor.  She had small Absence seizures, and after some research i was able to correctly decide that is what it was.  The doctor confirmed this when we took her.
-1	when my abdomen hurt about 10 years ago, I knew it was appendicitis from the feeling and what I knew about the condition. I went to the emergency room and told them what i thought it was and they ran tests. It came back that I was right and I had to have surgery
1	I don't know that I have any health or medical knowledge to actually demonstrate.  I do have allergies so I feel like throughout the years I have learned a lot about allergies and their symptoms, so I know what to do and what medicine to take when my allergies start acting up.
-1	Medical issue is very important one which must have take care immediately and require quickly and it will be changing our minds in to good think fo it
1	My mom got very sick, and the doctors admitted him for one thing, when in reality it was something entirely different that was bothering him. Her lung was partially collapsed, and they admitted her for bronchitis, or some sort of breathing issue, which was a TOTALLY wrong diagnosis. She almost died because her doctor didn't explain things  clearly to her, or allow her to seek out a second opinion until her lung totally collapsed. This, to me, is why it is so important to be thorough with the information presented and to ensure that the doctors and nurses are thorough, too. 
-1	Common interview questions and answers Be prepared to answer these common interview questions. Every interview has a unique focus, but some questions are asked so often, it makes sense to do all you can to prepare for them. In order to be successful, you need a strategynot scripted answers. Your goal should be to emphasize the experiences in your background that best fit what each interviewer is looking for.
-1	having prostrate problems, research and found a two drug us would shrink and help. asked my dr for prescription which she wrote
1	I recently went to the urgent care because I thought I had a specific condition. I recognized symptoms of this condition, and I looked up the symptoms online to confirm what I thought I had. When I saw the doctor, he confirmed that I had what I thought I had an prescribed me the appropriate medications to treat it.
1	Just growing up and on into adulthood the illnesses I have had or my family, or injuries have led me to have a basic understanding of health and when something is a real emergency. I have had to deal with a great many different scenarios, surgeries, drownings, car wrecks, illness, all of these have taught me a little more of about the way we need to care for ourselves and how to handle emeregencies.
1	When I had recurrent pregnancy loss, I went in to see a specialist. This was after my third loss. I spoke with him about how I understood that 1/4 pregnancies end in miscarriage, but the way my miscarriages were occurring seemed to me to not be just due to chance. My doctor agreed and said he could tell I knew what I was talking about.
1	I had a class on basic health in college. I passed the class and got a reasonable grade. All of my exams and projects for that class turned out well
1	When my dad's toes recently started turning black, I told dad that he either had poor circulation or his toes were dying of gangrene. He had gangrene and had to have his leg amputated.
-1	Each of my children have had the chicken pox. In addition, I was able to care for them with regards to their illness as well as prevent others from catching the chicken pox.
1	I have a particular medical need that required me to get a medication that is only prescribed upon being asked for it.  I knew all the reasons why I needed it and the doctor gave it to me no problem.
1	When my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer a few years ago, I needed to help my parents sort through treatment options and figure out what they wanted to do as far as chemotherapy, radiation, surgery, and other treatments.  I helped them use the internet to research and to find doctors who could give them different opinions, I helped them read through the information they were given in various places, and I did my best to be supportive in their efforts to figure it all out.  I used what I knew and what I knew how to do to help them as best as I could.
1	I had knee surgery and my knee was feeling swollen and sore a couple of years later when i started running a lot. I went to the doctors and said I thought it was just inflammation and he agreed. 
1	my sister fainted one morning and i knew it was likely due to her low blood sugar - i had her drink juice and she felt better
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues mostly revolves around being able to look up information on various conditions or reading information being given by doctors.  I take no prescriptions, have not had any major illnesses nor been significantly injured. 
1	I battled plantar fasciaitis for a long time and have learned how to harness the pain after many years of treatment and studying.  I had friends having the same issues and I was able to teach them effectively how to help treat the problem.
1	I have never had a serious health issue, so I do not have an answer for this question.  In general I exercise and eat well and have been healthy so far.
-1	When I had back surgery 6 years ago I knew exactly what the surgeon needed to do. I had a herniated disc so it required and open discectomy and I also had to have a laminectomy. Laminectomy is basically the shaving of laminae which is on the anterior portion of the spine. The outcome was great and I had all the faith in the world with my doctor. 
1	I have had to make several decisions regarding high blood pressure. I had high blood pressure and was also overweight. My doctor gave me the option to get on blood pressure medication or lose weight. 
1	I did not take an ambien to go to sleep because I knew that there are potential side effects with the medication. I took melatonin instead.
1	In a class in high school, a student said that vaccines caused autism. I explained to him and the class that there was zero link between the two, and that the doctor who claimed that there was got his medical license taken away. 
-1	When having to fill out forms and forms for check up when i broke my femur.  That is most of the extent of medical issues i have had.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was when I had a very bad cough. My parents were telling me it was just a regular cold, but I felt that It was worse than that. We went to the doctor on my behest and it turned out to be bronchitis. 
1	I was playing basketball and one of my teammates sprained his ankle. I immediately explained to him how to properly take care of his ankle for the next 48 hours.
1	A few years ago, I had a pain in my lower stomach that I thought was a bladder infection. I went to get it checked out and found out that it wasn't a bladder infection. I did some research online to see what other things could be causing my pain. One of them was ovarian cysts. I went to a gynecologist and she confirmed that I had cysts.
1	I have a rare disease. I went misdiagnosed for 3 years by many doctors in my state. Finally I flew to Mayo Clinic, and they diagnosed and treated me. So I dont trust local doctors as much now
-1	One time my wife was complaining about a burning sensation in her chest. She was very concerned and we went to the doctor I told her before we got there it was probably heartburn. It turned out she did, in fact, have heartburn.
1	I self diagnosed a pain in my knee as a bone spur. Upon visiting the doctor I explained the symptoms I was having and what pain I was going through and what I thought the issue was. The doctor took some x-rays and decided I was correct.  
-1	When I felt a weird sensation in my testicle area and it turned out to be a hernia, I went to the doctor and it I was right about the feeling in my balls. 
1	When my children get a cold or have cold like symptoms, unless I can't control the fever or they display new or extreme symptoms, I do not take them to the doctor because viruses can't be treated with medication.
1	I was at work and a coworker of mine was about to faint, I knew exactly what to do, so I helped him out
1	I was once an employee of an ophthalmologist. Working in the medical field gave me a good knowledge of things. You see patients a day and hear there stories. 
1	When I went to the chiropractor and he helped me understand how a lot of things worked and really explained a lot of medical terminology to me.
1	A few months ago, I had to go to the doctor's office for an MRI. While waiting, they gave me a pre-screening evaluation of my medical history and family medical history. On the paper included many medical terms and illnesses that I was familiar with due to the courses I had taken in college. I was able to complete the form without asking any questions.
1	I do not have much experience, besides my years in school. I feel that most of this being asked is just common knowledge and basic math skills being used to answer.
1	The only thing I can think of is that it's very easy for me to control my own weight.  I pretty much know how much I should be eating without counting calories or fat or anything.  I just naturally know how to keep myself at a healthy weight.
1	An instance when I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues is when I took a look at a rash on my wife's arm, and correctly diagnosed the cause prior to visiting the doctor. I knew that it was a chemical based reaction, due to prior experience and research when something similar happened to me in the past.
-1	I was recently at the doctor and had been very fatigued and could not breath threw my nose. I looked up my symptoms and found I most likely had a sinus infection. I went to the doctor and they said they will tell me exactly what was wrong, and low and behold it was a sinus infection.
1	When my grandpa had terminal cancer, I was able to figure out how much time he had left and that it was terminal.  that allowed me to enjoy what time I had left with him and prepare myself for when he died.
1	There have not been any times in my life where I knew so much about health or medical issues that I was totally confident in what I was thinking. I will always look up more information, talk to family or friends or a medical professional.
-1	I experience many times due to health issues. Because I check up my father for the medical issue. So, I experienced very well due to the hospitality. 
-1	When I was pregnant, I read a lot about the pregnancy and what to expect. With this knowledge I was able to understand what my body was going through and to react according to what my body was telling me.
1	I had a pain in my right side that felt like what I knew to be appendicitis. I went to my pcp and she agreed that it could be. After imaging tests, it turned out to not be appendicitis but the symptoms matched and only imaging could show the difference.
1	My father-in-law, recently had surgery to remove his thyroid.  In conversation with my wife, she was confused, not knowing what it was.  I was able to explain what the thyroid does.
1	I worked on an ambulance as an EMT.  I had to use my knowledge about health issues every time I went to work.  Having to use knowledge previously gained and apply that to a situation is a part of the job, and using perviously gained knowledge from a lot of studying determines how accurately and quickly you can respond to a call and identify the person's main need and best route of treatment. 
-1	i've never really been sick, so never? i received antibiotics for strep throat last year, but that is the only time i've ever needed something more than a general checkup. 
1	I had taken medication for headaches for 7 years,  I did reading online and talked to a friend who was a medical doctor and figured out that the medication was no longer effective for me, but my doctor just kept renewing it anyway. When I talked to her about it then she re looked at my charts and officially took me off of it. 
-1	Taking a physical, and during the follow up, asking questions, the end result being giving the answers which enabled me to become more knowledgeable about health and medical issues.
1	My boyfriend's mother was sick and I was able to help her understand a lot of the paperwork and doctor's notes at the hospital.
-1	I once had a friend who was going to start taking a newer version of Acutane and I helped them steer clear of that drug because it had caused a colon condition in me. The ability to help them with my past experience gave me some knowledge on this issue.
-1	when my little sister had her 2nd child she had a c-section and I was elected to pack the incision when she was sent home as it was not fully healed yet. I had to go to her house every night and clean the incision and repack it with gauze. 
-1	I am aware of changes in my body.  If I am severely sick I will go see a doctor even though I may or may not know what is wrong.  There is a possibility that there is something I am not aware of and by seeing the doctor, after I explain the symptoms, he/she may know what is wrong.
1	Had a bad reaction to a medication, passed out and hit my head. Went to urgent care, did not have concussion symptoms. Urgent care doctor recommended a CT scan and did not give a neurological exam. Followed up with primary doctor a week later, doctor gave a neurological exam, no concussion symptoms. Recommended not to get the scan. I did not get the scan.
1	my wife has crohn's disease and was recently hospitalized with an intestinal blockage.  I studied all of the test findings and discussed results with doctors and surgeons and came to a good understanding of all the issues, treatments and likely outcomes.
1	I fell and hurt my hand. It was painful and not getting better. I looked it up and found that I broke a small bone in the wrist/hand. It is not the usual wrist break because I fell with the hand underneath instead of outstretched. I went to the doctor who confirmed with an x-ray. 
1	When my kids are sick I know how to take care of them, like if they're running a temperature. I know when they need to be checked out by the pediatrician and when it's just a regular cold that they can't do anything about.
1	I had multiple concussions growing up. While playing college football I sustained my 4th concussion. As a result, I had to get multiple tests run and was told I should be done playing football. I had to read a lot about percentages that increase with multiple concussions and side effects that take a long time to show up as well as side effects that happen immediately and can be tough to recover from.
1	I can't think of a specific experience off the top of my head, but when I was seeing my psychiatrist, he often tried putting me on anti-depressants I knew wouldnt work because we had disagreements about my symptoms. After several months, he realized I was right. 
-1	well i currently work in a hoptial's warehosue and while i deliver the stuff to the floors i overheard drs and nurses talking about medical stuff and to me it is not that hard to grasp and understand
-1	I have taken multiple health classes and biology classes throughout high school and college despite none applying to my major of psychology so I believe I do have some set knowledge of them
1	In the summer of 2015 I was diagnosed with optic neuritis and monitored for MS.  Many tests and specialists later I was eventually diagnosed with RA instead.  I am still attempting to find a good medication combo (and still being monitored for MS), therefore doctor appointments and trips to the pharmacy are a weekly occurrence.
-1	health is important. it should start with you making sure you are eating the right things and make sure all medication is being taken properly. the doctor is next by making sure he is all about you and wants the best for you without you being a number but a person with feelings and also having follow up in the right amount time for refills and any concerns one would have 
1	"A new acquaintance here in Chicago was telling me about some spots on his skin that he gets during the summer. He said he is really worried about it. I told him it is likely a condition called tinea versicolor. In Hawaii it is knows as ""haole rot"" because it is common in white people. It is a fungus on the skin caused by humidity."
1	After my last pregnancy, I noticed that I felt sluggish, tired & not able to lose weight. After doing some research at home, I found that I could possible have a Thyroid disorder. I followed up with my PCP & he ran the proper blood tests, that in fact showed that I had Hypothyroidism.
1	I was recently diagnosed with high blood pressure, so I came home and spent time researching it and finding out what I needed to do and was able to implement those changes and actions. 
1	I once volunteered as an EMT for my local rescue squad. I often have to treat patients and take their blood pressure. The normal for systolic and diastolic pressure is 120/80, but many patients have higher or lower blood pressure. It is also important to ask about their medical history, since they may have had a past disease leading to these results.
1	When my father had diabetes 2 and I sat him down when we got home and tried to explain some of the things he didn't understand he wondered why I knew so much and I told him I suspected he may have diabetes so I went and researched the subject a lot before the doctors visit.  After a couple hours he felt more comfortable dealing with his diabetes.
-1	When taking prescription medication you have to administer it yourself. You have to carefully following the instructions about how many pills to take. It also shows you things to avoid like alcohol. You need to be very careful when doing this because there might be side effects from the medication. 
-1	When I became seriously ill from my gallbladder, I had to be transferred to an outside hospital to receive treatment. I understood what was happening and the possibility of what could happen.
1	I was having serious gastrointestinal issues for many years and all the doctors were telling me to just take nausea medication and weren't trying to help me figure out the problem. I told them I wanted to do blood tests and kept at it until someone took me seriously
1	I went to the emergency room with a dislocated knee, but the doctors insisted it was something else, until I was able to pop my knee back into place while waiting for x-rays.
-1	I had had some bad chest pains and thought I was having a heart attack it hurt so bad. I went to the ER and they did all the tests to check for heart attack and everything came back fine. They would not tell me what was wrong with me other than I didnt have heart problems. I got online and started googling my symptoms and realized that I had costocondritis which I had never heard of. So i basically diagnosed myself with it and did what everyone in forums had tried for theirs and eventually it got better and went away. 
1	My brother called me because my father was having chest pains, so I told my brother to find an aspirin and crush it up or have my father chew it, because I knew aspirin was recommended for heart problems and I learned from a neuroscience class that crushing it up gets it into the system faster.
-1	There was a time where I had to take care of myself and by using my skills I was able to get things done the right way
-1	When I had endometriosis and fibroids so bad it caused me to have a hysterectomy at a younger age. I had to go to several doctors to finally find one that was willing to do the surgery. Several refused to do the surgery because I was younger and not married yet. They thought I would change my mind on wanting children even though I knew have endometriosis as bad as I did was a health risk
1	When my doctor told me I have high blood pressure and asked me if I knew how to lower it I told him I did as I had done my research no high blood pressure. I told him about my eating changes and exercises that I could do and he was quite impressed.
1	I had an inflammatory issue which cause my skin to turn very red.  I believed it was an immune response to foods so while I took a steroid, I also researched and found an anti-inflammatory diet which brought my skin back to normal.
-1	i have went to many doctors as my family members have lot of medical problems i learn somewhat from the doctor as there are many kind of issues so that i have some knowledge about health issue
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues was when I studying to take my medical and billing examination.
-1	I can't answer this question accurately, because I have no knowledge of health issues other than the basic information about diseases and other things.
1	I have been able to ascertain when by blood pressure was too high and when it was too low and how the surroundings affected them both
1	After a bout of iritis I took a blood test.  They were looking for the genetic marker for ankylosing spondilitis and found it.  The doctor called me and said I had a 90% chance of having the disease.  I then looked up this information online and found that that's not what the results meant.  90% of people who have ankylosing spondilitis have the genetic market I have, but that's very different from my having it meaning I have a 90% chance of having the disease.
-1	An experience in my life that made me demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was out of shape and I would breathe very heavily after doing an activity. I read on the subject to gain more knowledge and try to prevent it from happening again. I had to get in shape.
1	When I was pregnant and had low iron I needed to receive 5 iron infusions so I needed to learn about the iron infusions and the side effects, etc. Also I have a blood clotting disorder so while I was pregnant I needed to learn about the precautions that would need to be taken in order to have a safe birth.
1	I frequently get messages on facebook from old friends and family members asking me about health related issues, and they usually thank me for the help, even for things as simple as helping them find a local doctor and getting the right number to call for access to help.
1	I have 2 kids so my wife and I are always considering medical issues when they are sick. I have used my knowledge of things like safe temperatures and the look of rashes and other symptoms to determine whether or not they need to go to the doctor and have been correct so far.
-1	I favor students and potential employees who came across the profession through life experience: had a sick family member who received occupational therapy ... Best Advice: I think one of the biggest tips for this question is honesty  do not try to expand or exaggerate your experience as I know that you are new to the field.
1	I understand how to take my own blood pressure, and what the diastolic and systolic pressure rates mean, so I know understand what the results are when a nurse takes myu blood pressure.
1	When I was having rapid heart rate when around others, I was able to research and find out that I need a beta blocker. I asked my doctor if it was okay and he went ahead and assigned me the beta blocker.
-1	My mother and grandmother are nurses, so growing up I was aware of the body and medication and diseases. Ive also been to the doctor regularly. 
-1	I feel like I have a good feeling over my body. When I get sick my wife always pushes me to go seek medical help. At this point I'm able to tell here exactly how I feel and if I should seek medical attention or not. I think it's important to know your body 
-1	Fatty liver deposits and the effect from drinking. Milk thistle supplements can help this and get the numbers back down where they should be.
1	My husband wasn't feeling well, and his medboard (military sick call) told him to just go home and sleep. However, I knew with his symptoms, (fever, sore throat, white spots on throat and tonsils), that he most likely had strep throat and needed antibiotics. He went back to see another doctor, and they diagnosed him with the strep.
-1	I've had a few surgeries and  treatments in my life and have seen many doctors in different cities, and I have done a lot of research about my medical issues that helped me a lot. I have also gone to school to be a certified CNA and have worked in the medical field for over 14 years. I'm no expert my any means , but I do know certain things.
1	As a med tech i received my diabetes speciality which enabled me to administer the stick test for diabetes and administer insulin using a sliding scale.
1	I visited my doctor recently to review blood test. I noted that my A1C is good for a diabetic, at 6.7 and she agreed. I then told her that my glucose meter was giving me morning readings of 175, and  asked for a new machine because the old one was not properly calibrated. I was right! The new meter just gave me a morning reading of 124, which is more realistic.
1	I started having weird chronic adult acne in my mid 20s.  I figured something was wrong because no one in my family have this issue, and acne in general is not normal for someone in their 20s.  I went to my primary care physician who referred me to a specialist.  The specialist told me everything is normal, and prescribed a strong acne cream which damaged my skin, but also helped with the acne.  The specialist ignored all my concerns of me having abnormal adult acne to begin with, saying she only dealt with the skin - possible bad digestion or hormonal issues, all of which may cause acne, are not her business.  I spend the next few years dealing with the acne and being told by my PCP that maybe it's just normal for me.  I got sick and fed up with this, went to a holistic hippie doctor, who said I had issues with digestion, and prescribed a change of diet and probiotics.  With the hippie doctor's help and a change in my eating habits/supplements, I no longer have acne.
1	There has been instances of cancer, heart disease, diabetes, thyroid issues, and hormonal imbalances in my family. I have been around it all my life. It would be difficult to keep up at a family dinner without being able to understand or even speak up for yourself.
1	I woke up in the middle of the night with an extremely sore throat and swollen glands. It is unusual for me to be woken up in the middle of the night by anything, so I was concerned and went to get a glass of water. It hurt to swallow, so I decided to see what my throat looked like. When I found that there were white spots on the back of my throat, I knew that it could be strep throat and went in to the doctor. The test came back positive for strep throat. 
1	A couple of years ago, I stepped off the front porch of my new home and into a hole that was covered in leaves.  It was instant blinding pain for a few seconds, then I crawled into my house.  My ankle was huge and I couldn't put any pressure on it.  Everyone insisted that I go to the ER, but I looked up how to test fractured/broken vs. sprained ankles.  Canada actually had a great write up on it, apparently ER visits due to sprained ankles seriously hurt their socialized medicine policy due to costs.  I did their tests, and correctly diagnosed my sprained ankle then treated it accordingly.
1	i went the doctor once because i was having some problems. i had googled my symptoms and done some research to see what might be going on. the doctor diagnosed me with the same thing that i had suspected i had, so i felt like i had done a good job looking into it myself
1	I can't say that I've had a significant experience that would demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have a general knowledge and attempt to get some regular exercise, but always ask relevant professionals because it's better to understand what I don't know than to not know and think I know.
1	I fell out of a tree and hurt my neck. I didn't actually think I was hurt that bad but I made myself stop what I was doing and think about it.  Then I realized I could have hurt myself badly even if it didn't feel like it at the time. I ended up having somebody take me to the hospital (they didn't think I was hurt much either).  I ended up have a shattered vertabrae in my neck.  good thing i went to the hospital.
1	I had a c section and a few weeks later after a long car ride my right leg was in a great deal of pain. It turned purple and swelled up. I went to the ER and said I had a blood clot and I was right.
1	I have followed instructions for all prescribed medicine, for example finishing the prescribed amount of amoxicillin even after the symptoms are gone. 
-1	When my son was chocking I had to give him the hem lick maneuver.It was the scariest thing ever. Thankfully, it worked and the piece of hot dog dislodged from his throat. 
1	I actually do not have very much experience about any particular medical issues I have had many medical issues as have my family but we were so busy trying get to figure out how all the systems worked that it was hard to focus on the actual medical issues.
1	I had to take care of my mom when she had meningitis and was able to navigate the different specialists and tests she needed
-1	When it comes to physical there are not that many. But it's more of the emotional ones that I have a better understanding of.
1	I once had UTI in a row within couple of months.  Before I sees the doctor the 2nd time, I research information from the internet.  I don't use FB, I use Mayo clinic or Wikipedia.  Anyway when I met with the doctor and I start to ask him questions and telling him about when I find from online.  His answer to me was, you possibly know more than me since you researched the topic.
1	When my mother in law had a heart attack, one of the first things I did was make sure she had taken some aspirin. I know that, because it's a blood thinner, aspirin can help with heart attacks and improve people's chances.
1	I had a swollen lymph node a while back that was not tender to the touch, and I had no other disease like symptoms.  the doctor thought it was best to remove the lymph node and biopsy it for lymphoma.  the results were negative.
1	I had some issues with anxiety attacks after eating. I realized that these were happening when I would eat a lot of carbs. It led me to learn about hypoglycemia and the effects of low blood sugar on the adrenal system
-1	Before I thought about having my last surgery I read online and in medical journals about the pro and cons of the procedure before having it done. I wanted to know the facts for myself before making that decision.
-1	I did take some courses on medical administration. But really my knowledge came from person experience thru my mom who had quite a bit of medical issues. 
1	I have a wife with severe COPD and a heart condition that developed while she was in the hospital for her breathing.  I spent many hours talking with the nurses and the doctors as well as on line researching her conditon.  I was able to visit with her for 12 hours a more a day while she was in the hospital and monitor the care she was given.  A few times my research paid off such as the time they wanted to clean her room and I had to ask them to not use areosal due to her COPD and the fact that the areosol triggered it.
1	I had cancer at a younger age and through that episode I learned a great deal about treatments and the advantages of lifestyle changes, proper nutrition, etc.  I read about my disease and gained enough knowledge that when my Dr's spoke about meds and treatment I understood fully 
1	I saw the history of weight gain within my family, and also saw that I was starting to gain weight. I decided that while I had not gained a significant amount of weight yet, and while my schedule best allowed for it in the stage of life that I was in (i.e., I had a lot of free time), I wanted to take matters into my own hands and gain control of my weight before it became harder to do so. I exercised and took better care in terms of watching what I ate, and was able to gain control over my weight.
1	My mother was very sick most of my childhood, so I picked information here and there from her pamphlets and also her doctors. Also, in college I was in a Physician Assistant program where I started to learn a lot about health and medical issues. To get into that program, I had to shadow a doctor or PA for 500 hours, so I also absorbed a lot of information from there. 
-1	The only situation I can remember right now is that once I helped my mother understand the instructions for a treatment that she needed to have at home
1	When I was pregnant with my first child I developed a small lump in my breast. My doctor suspected that it was likely to be normal breast changes with pregnancy, but because of the size, density, location of the lump, they recommended an ultrasound to verify that it was not something more concerning. I went for the appointment and after the ultrasound it was determined that this was likely just a cyst. I felt very comfortable with that assessment as I have had numerous cysts myself, and I have a family history of them as well. 
-1	Whenever I think about experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues, I think about my grandpa having a heart attack. I remember sitting in the living room of my grandparents house with my grandpa and grandma and then all of a sudden my grandpa started rubbing his chest and saying that he had a tight pain and I continued asking him questions and trying to figure out exactly what it was that was wrong with him and if he needed to be taken to the hospital and eventually, I told him that we needed to go because he was having a heart attack and it turned out that he had.
1	In my early 30s I got serious about taking care of myself. I started going to the gym consistently. I started building muscle, my cardiovascular fitness improved, I could do more activities without getting tired and stopped having dizzy spells. I started reading diet-related articles, reading nutritional labels and cutting out saturated fat and excessive sugar, and increasing protein intake. I replaced fat with muscle and my energy increased.
1	My husband and I are currently trying to get pregnant. We tried a new method called invocell. During the process, 12 eggs were able to be retrieved and inseminated. At my age, 80-90% of those should have become embryos. Unfortunately, only one did and it did not implant. This means that something is wrong with my body that caused so little of those to become embryos.
1	I am diagnosed with schizophrenia and am fairly knowledgeable about the disease. I enjoy learning about it and having knowledge about it.
1	One night about three months after I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes, I took 20 units of Humalog (short acting insulin) instead of 20 units of Lantus (long acting insulin) before bedtime. My boyfriend got upset and called 911. I ended up in the hospital for three hours having my blood sugar tested every half an hour, and paid $700 for the privilege. The next time I took the wrong kind of insulin at night, I did the math, made the appropriate amount of toast, slathered it with honey, and didn't tell the boyfriend.
1	When my sister was very young she choked on a marble. I had my little brother start the Heimlich maneuver right away while I called 911.
-1	A time when my cousin was worried that he might have a serious health issue. I told him to calm down and to stop reading things online and to just go to the doctor.
1	I was prescribed a steroid and told the doctor I would not take it as it can effect the pressure in the eye and increase the chances of getting glaucoma. I have glaucoma and knew that taking steroids was an issue. 
-1	I experienced tachycardia (rapid heart rate) in my early 20's. This ailment can be caused by a plethora of different things, and it can be overwhelming worrying about what the certain cause is. I did an immense amount of research on my own in order to better understand how to prevent this. Later in life, I met someone who experience the same problem, and was confused. I was able to provide temporary relief to this person because of my past knowledge and experience with tachycardia.
1	I try to stick to the healthy diet and exercise a couple of times a week to be healthy. So i don't really have a lot of experience of health issues.
1	I was seriously injured when I was 24. I subsequently had to go through many tests and medical procedures which has given me much higher than average knowledge of doctors and medical procedures. I have an artificial disc in my back, arthritis in the facet joints, scarring on the nerves, and other problems that I still suffer with due to this injury and it has been over 16 years. 
-1	I was having some stomach/reflux issues and my current doctor kept telling me there was nothing wrong. I did my research, and found a new doctor. It turns out that I did have a problem, and it would still be left untreated if I had not switched doctors.
1	I fell on my right hand one night and heard a pop. I knew I broke a bone in my hand - not just a sprain or minor injury - because my finger was unable to bend without pain and my knuckle was misplaced.
1	"I was on vacation with friends, and my friend's teenage daughter got sick with a high fever. We were in a third world country, and the resort's on staff ""doctor"" looked very young and unprofessional (she was wearing jeans). The doctor was going to give her a shot. I stopped her and knew enough to ask first exactly what was in the needle. Thankfully I asked, because the doctor actually could not answer the question! She said it was ""something like aspirin"". I advised my friend not to allow the shot to be given. Instead, we brought her daughter back to our room and gave her Tylenol and gatorade, which we purchased from the gift shop. Her daughter was fine by the next day."
1	One time I demonstrated knowledge of health issues by helping care for my cousin who has diabetes. I researched and asked questions, and learned where her blood sugar levels should be and what she could eat and couldn't eat at certain times and helped her measure her blood sugar.
1	I have to keep track of my dad's health information such as weight, body temperature, and medications after he received a liver transplant last year. The anti rejection medicine that he takes has to be taken every 12 hours for the rest of his life and he has to adjust the dosage based on his monthly blood work. I help him a lot because I want him to stay healthy and I enjoy helping him.
1	I am able to help my mother manage her blood sugar by testing it after a meal and ensuring that it is less than 180 mg/dl
1	When I started having pain in my elbow and forearm, I did some research and discovered it was possible I had cubital tunnel syndrome.  When I went to the doctor, they confirmed this diagnosis.
1	All of the years I have worked as a nurse. Twenty years is how long I worked on  medical floor in acute care. Experience is everything.
1	When I recently went to the doctor for mild depression, the doctor discussed several different treatment options with me.  I was already familiar with the different types of medications used to treat depression which helped me to make a decision with the help of my doctor.
1	When I went to my last doctor, she remarked that I have done my research. This is because I asked specific questions about my illness which I only could have known had I done my research already.
-1	i am experienced in the knowledge of what you have presented me with to answer the questions that you are asking me. I have heard of these things or saw them in real life.
1	My friend was having trouble breathing and I've had experiences with a family member that had panic attacks. I told him that what he was experiencing was likely a panic attack and to calm down and breath.
-1	I cant say for sure that I have had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I prefer to trust my doctor and/or nurses that are available to demonstrate their knowledge.
-1	When I was pregnant with my daughter. I was given instruction to perform the test at home and needed to calculate my intake of sugar and carbohydrates. I was able to do it my self and I was able to understand everything
1	I had a nodule on my thyroid that I was concerned about. My daughter was diagnosed with thyroid cancer at 15, so I already knew a lot about the disease. It helped me tremendously because I knew exactly what to expect, as well as general information about thyroid cancer, thyroid disorders, goiter, etc. I knew that the lump was not normal, and I also knew that I should have a biopsy just to make sure.
1	I recently had to tape off of some medication. First by taking half my dose for the first 7 days, then  1/4 of my dosage for the next 7 days. After the first 7 days I also started my new medication. I was able to tape off the old meds and begin the new meds exactly as prescribed. 
1	First, I have a degree in Psychology and i'm a certified Professional Educator in the state of Florida with certifications in Biology and General Science. Second, my family members and I have had complex health issues in the past. For me, my health concerns have increased in the past ten years as i've aged and i've had to have both corrective and emergency procedures performed on me.
1	I went and got a flu shot to lessen the chance of getting the flu, and also lessen the symptoms if I did get the flu. It's important for everyone to get vaccinated, especially to protect those who can't.
-1	My daughter has a hemagioma that was rupturing, I knew how to stop the bleeding as well as preventing rupturing again. I made sure I knew all about this red blood filled birthmark.
1	I learned about medical issues through studying in college. I learned a lot by taking courses in exercise science, health promotion, and public health. Through assignments, lectures, and field work, I gained a much greater understanding of health and medical issues.
1	A few years ago I had a friend that was diagnosed with stage 4 cancer and she was admitted into a cancer treatment center. She was very worried about what kind of processes and procedures she would go through. I was able to talk to her about what she may experience because my father was also diagnosed with cancer and I watched him suffer through it for 6 months going through all sorts of different treatments. Because of my experience with my father I was able to talk to my friend about what she can expect and how hard the process is going to be.
1	I can tell the doctors the side effects of many antibiotics and what drugs you shouldn't take with them. I know drugs in clinical trials that the doctors don't know about. I am the mother of two children with serious health conditions. This is a huge part of my life. I run a support group for others dealing with the same things. 
1	i noticed i had some sort of rash under my arm when i first started college.  i did some research online using several reputable websites.  i figured out what i probably had was a mild skin problem called eczema.  i saw that a doctor can prescribe a cream for this.  i made an appointment and my doctor prescribed a steroid cream and it worked great.
-1	My daughters both got super high fevers. Once the fevers went past 100.4 I started giving them fever reducers. If the fever lasted more that a couple days or they developed other symptoms I took them to the dr right away. My 18 month old got a Hugh fever with no other symptoms. I did research after the drs sent us home with no answers. I concluded she had a virus call roseolla and I was correct. 
1	A partner I had at the time was starting to show signs of an Addisonian crisis (she was diagnosed years before with Addison's disease), and was starting to become delirious. I injected her emergency medication into her thigh and we went to hospital. 
1	I used the best statistical anaylsis I could to determine the answers to the questions.  I really don't know how any medical knowledge would help in this scenario because these were all math problems.
1	My daugther had a recent bone tumor found in her fractured pinky. She was to have surgery by taking a bit of bone from her elbow to replace the weakened bone in her pinky which would also be filed down to remove the tumor part.
1	after a while of taking various medications, i did research on each one so that i could gain knowledge on whether or not i needed to keep taking each one, or whether i could lower the dosage. i used this knowledge to have an indepth conversation about the medications with my primary care physician on the next visit.
1	I've had 2 children delivered vaginally via induction and had stitches afterward. I take medication for depression and anxiety and hypothyroidism. One time I cut my leg open and had to get 15 staples to close it.
1	When my grandma was dying, I was able to identify when she was low on oxygen, with her hands being a few degrees colder, and her sleeping more and was able to make sure her oxygen stayed at an appropriate level.
1	Once when I was visiting my father he began to have numbness in his extremities and moderate chest pain. He believed it was just heartburn, but I convinced him to go to the doctor and he did in fact have a mild heart attack. From that point on I was instrumental in maintaining his cardiovascular health by helping him maintain a diet and exercise. He is now much more conscious of his health and willing to consult a medical professional about any questions he may have concerning his (or any immediate family/friends) overall wellbeing. So, by demonstrating applied knowledge concerning heart health I have effectively prolonged my father's life and very likely those of the people he spends his time with.
1	I know when i catch cold, what I need to take and what to do. I do not need to go to see a doctor while I had a fever.
1	When someone had heat stroke, I ran to them and figured out what was the cause. I didn't necessarily save their life but it definitely helped knowing what it was. 
-1	When I was 24 years old, I went to the doctor to get my yearly physical exam.  Up to that point, I had been having them for 6 years without any issues but this time, the doctor called me the following week to tell me that I had an irregular pap smear and that the pap had shown that I had precancerous cells.  Because I had taken anatomy for 3 years and I was pretty enlightened on how the different type of cells all line up in  woman's reproductive parts, I instantly knew that it was serious.  I did not complain or argue when he got me into a specialist for the following week.  The specialist advised that he had to do a LEEP which again, I was familiar with so I had some comfort only because I knew what the process entailed.
-1	Not too long ago I was told that I had scar tissue on my liver.  This was caused years ago when my gall bladder ruptured.  I already knew what scar tissue was and how it could affect my liver.
-1	I have very little knowledge of medical issues. I am parent of two kids so I have had to use the little knowledge i have to take temperatures, treat fevers, upset stomachs and other ailments. My knowledge of head aches, which i have often has helped me with my kids in knowing what type of head ache they might be having and what could be causing it, whether it be dehydration or sinuses.
1	Not to long ago my mother in law was diagnosed with cancer.  She had to have surgery, and then some chemotherapy to make sure everything was good.  My own mother spent two and a half years doing chemotherapy.  She was diagnosed with stage 4 metastatic bone cancer.  I was one of her primary care givers while she was going through the chemo, and her eventual passing.  I was able to talk with my mother in law about chemo and the possible side effects.
-1	I had pains in my chest in the heart area so I went to the clinic and they said it was because I was very overweight. I was actually 250 lbs-80 lbs overweight. I was very scared and asked them to check for blood clots around the heart. They put me on high blood pressure medication and told me to lose weight. The chest pains subsided but I still have a lot of weight to lose.
1	I am the father of six children, and have been in the military for 14 years. Constant training from the military as well as the plethora of issues that having that many children have has made me quite well versed in medical issues.
1	I taught health Education 101 at the collegiate level and have an MPH. I know the basics of health and regularly work with doctors and nurses in my current profession as an emergency response specialist
-1	A time I can think about that demonstrated my knowledge about a health issue is when I was diagnosed with high blood pressure. After I was diagnosed with high blood pressure, I went home to do some research on things needed to lower my blood pressure other than medication. At the time, a doctor I had did not tell me to make any lifestyle changes, instead just put me on medication which had me sleepy all of the time. A few months in, I was taking my medication and came to the doctor and got it checked and it was normal. The doctor asked if I was consistently taking my medication and I also explained that I was also making healthier lifestyle changes in which he was very surprised.
1	A few years ago I got kicked in the kidney in a soccer game and it was bruised. I knew that rest and inactivity would help the situation, so that's what I did. The body is made to heal itself in most cases. 
1	I don't really have any experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge.   Maybe just trying to help my fiance lose weight and lower his cholesterol and blood pressure for his annual checkup. In six months I really helped him turn things around by changing his diet. 
1	I studied a lot of science while I was in college. I took a lot of corse and I'm familiar with many of the terminology.
1	My son was broken out in a terrible rash that ended up getting infected.  I told my wife that we needed to get him to a doctor immediately because I had had infections before and his skin looked like mine.
1	The other day at work my coworkers and I were discussing the flu because a lot of people thought they had contracted it. I had done some reading on the flu, knew symptoms, how long it should last, etc. but many of my coworkers did not. They claimed to have gotten the flu, when in reality they just contracted some sort of virus that had similar symptoms to the flu.
1	I can always google what I need but going into the doctors or having a checkup and having them tell me my numbers for blood pressure and heart rate I can tell that those numbers are good for me or not. I keep an eye on my blood pressure and have actively worked to improve it over the years.
1	the birth of my 3rd and 4th kids. from my previous experience and research i knew what was necessary and what was dr convienance
-1	I am a massage therapist.  Many times of the years clients have asked advice on nutrition, exercise, pain management and I have helped them work through their issues.  It is surprising how many people are not self-aware. 
1	When my husband was in a car accident I was able to use my cpr and first aid training to help him and apply pressure to his wound until he got professional help
1	When I worked in a physicians office, a patient told me that he did not understand his blood pressure. I explained to him how he had high blood pressure and showed his history. I saw that ate a lot of fatty and sugar foods and made no effort to improve his eating habits. In addition, I saw this his sugar level was high and that he did not have much physical activity. I went over all of the information with the nurse to confirm that everything I was reading was correct. She confirmed that the information was correct that I was giving to the patient. 
-1	I can't think of a time in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  (I am usually fairly good at figuring out my dog's health issues, but that doesn't help your survey results.)
-1	WHEN I FOUND OUT I HAD TWO CYST IN MY OVARIES, I FELT SCARED BUT WHEN I GOT ALL THE INFORMATION THAT I NEEDED AND WAS VERY INFORMED I FELT GOOD ABOUT IT. 
1	When I found out that my daughter had asthma, I made sure to find out everything I could. That knowledge helped me when she was wheezing. 
1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes I was already fairly knowledgeable about how to manage symptoms because of literature and websites I had read previously. Knowing that diet and exercise were the key components to managing diabetes helped me stay relatively healthy.
1	Every quarter I teach a section on mental health. We cover underlying causes of psychological disorders, both biological and environmental, as well as symptoms and treatment.
1	About one and a half years ago, I visited the emergency room due to pain in my lungs while breathing. The staff figured out that I had pulmonary embolisms and a blood clot in my heart. I was given a lot of information and I was able to understand most of it without too much struggle.
1	I dont know much about health or medical issues at all.  Recently I found out that I have pmdd.  I spend a lot of time to research on this issue.  I'm taking some medication for pmdd right now.  I have paid very careful attention to how my body react to the medicine.  
1	When I broke a bone in my foot my blood pressure readings were high.  Doctors and staff tried to put me on blood pressure medications.  I waited until after my injury was healed and until after I was able to start jogging again.  My blood pressure readings went down, and I successfully avoid the blood pressure medications.
-1	My grandpa had merca in his blood due to diabetic sores he had on hes feet. He was in the hospital for along time and even had to get some of his toes cut off due to this issue. 
1	When I had my heart attack, I really did not have conventional symptoms, but I knew something was wrong. Though I am not one to go to the doctor frequently, I nevertheless called 911. The EMTs didn't think I was having a heart attack and told me I could go to the ER or not, depending on what I wanted to do. I almost didn't go. I knew though that something was really wrong. I elected to go and went into cardiac arrest before we got to the hospital
-1	When I was in Junior High, my mom was diagnosed with breast cancer. This is when I really started doing research to better understand what she was going through. I now perform breast exams on myself a few times a month.
-1	My daughter had the flu to where she was hospitalized a month ago and the she got the flu shot and then a week ago she got the flu again.  So that really made think about what is really effective when it comes to prevention of things
1	I honestly don't have much knowledge of health or medical issues. I have chronic migraines that I take daily preventative medication for. I also have specific things I do when I do get a migraine so all of my medical knowledge is really about my specific condition.
-1	There was many times that i had certain symptoms and i would read in books or study online about the possible ailments. I usually figured out the specific illness myself even before the doctor could.
1	After each of three babies, it was important to bring them to their many well baby check-ups. After my middle child experienced some difficulty with weight gain (he was gaining weight but not at the amount expected), I was on alert for the same issue with my third child. Indeed, it happened to him too, even though he did not have the gastric reflux issue that my middle child had had. By being on alert for it, I knew to take it seriously when the doctor pointed out the weight issue, even before the doctor was seeing it as much of a problem. 
-1	Education and training. I've worked in a hospital, not directly with patients but we are thoroughly informed and trained on basic medical courses.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my mother was complaining one night of having weird visual hallucinations of small bright lights. I took her blood pressure because she has a history of high blood pressure and it was about 170 systolic. I was concerned because her baseline systolic was around 130 on medication. Because of my knowledge, I was concerned that she may be at risk for stroke and her blood pressure was very high. I retook her blood pressure because if you get an abnormal reading, you should always recheck under the same circumstance. She had a headache also, so after rechecking her blood pressure was still around 170 systolic. I told her that we need to go to the ER because I was concerned about how high her BP is and her risk of stroke. She also smokes cigarettes, so her risk is increased. Her symptoms could have been dangerous and the abnormal visual hallucinations could have been aura for an oncoming migraine, but I didn't want to take any chances. I took her to the ER. She ended up being fine. 
1	My son has autism and because of my experience with preschool aged children and training I had taken, I was aware of the possibility fairly early on.  I noticed different traits he had and was able to have him diagnosed before he turned 4. 
1	One time I was discussing an abnormal looking mole on my friend's arm.  He was concerned it might be melanoma, and I told him about the ABCDEs of melanoma.  I told him he should definitely have it checked out because it exhibited some of these signs.
1	When I was extremely overweight and I was feeling like crap whenever  I ate a lot of carbohydrates.  I started researching insulin resistance and pre diabetes and hyperglycemia.  I had all of the symptons of it and I went to the doctor and they confirmed via glucose test.  I ended up losing all of my excess weight and my glucose is perfect.
-1	Almost everyday I have to help friends out with some kind of medical or health knowledge, I'm actually really well studied in this subject. I just am not good at math. I can't say there's been many situations in my life that I have actually had to put use my medical knowledge,  cause honestly I haven't really done much or been in situations that people could end up injured.
1	My son recently had a high fever so high that I decided to take him to the doctor. After answering the nurses and doctors questions, he was given a prescription for an antibiotic and ibuprofen. I had to remind the nurse that I had already given him a dose of ibuprofen, so he could not have more.
1	I have been on clonazepam for years (for insomnia). Due to a mix-up, the prescription lapsed. Due to the fact that I had been on the drug for so long, my body experienced withdrawal. It was strange that I needed to hold onto the wall of the shower to take a shower. Fortunately, I have not had a similar problem. Got to the doctor asap and got the prescription re-issued. End of withdrawal, which can be scary even if you know what is going on.
1	My son was born 12 weeks premature and had a birth defect (sagittal craniosynostosis). During this time I learned a lot about medicine and how to interpret medical information as I needed to be able to understand it to make decisions for his care.
1	I was having recurrent infections, but one of my previous doctors keep telling me it was a yeast infection, but the symptoms I was experiences are more like bacterial infections.  I try the medication but as I know the infection doesn't go.  Then I go a natural local and buy medications that treats that kind of infection and after a couple of days my infection was gone. 
1	I knew something was wrong with my eye and I kept putting off getting it checked out.  I figured if i ignored it that the symptoms would go away.  I tried to put it out of my mind but couldn't silence the feelings of dread in my body.  My symptoms werent severe but something in the back of my mind told me that there was something wrong.  So, I went to the doctor and I was correct....it wasnt just a simple procedure
-1	this was hard some of it i knew but some i have never experinces before so it made it hard but i learned alot from it 
1	For a few weeks, I had pain in my side, i was pretty sure it was gallbladder related, which it was. I ended up having it taken out
1	I went to the doctor because I had been feeling very lethargic. I looked up a doctor in my insurance and made an appointment. I followed the instructions for my first appointment and arrived on time. When the doctor asked my symptoms I was able to accurately describe them and we found out I was deficient in two vitamins.
1	Very recently my mom was talking to me about her husband and how he wasn't feeling well. Not only could I carry on the conversation, but, I was also able to speculate what else may be wrong with him and knew better that he should not have been taking prednisone with ibuprofen. 
1	I have been to the doctor several times for various conditions. I have two kids that have gone to the doctor for check ups and conditions as well. My husband has bene hospitalized for a condition.
-1	When I was in the army I received many physicals and vaccines. I would ask the doctors many questions about the vaccines and I would later share the information with my fellow soldiers.
1	I had my appendix taken out and I was able to self diagnose what was causing my pain and I new about what was involved in the surgery.  
1	When I had my children, the first two were normal, easy pregnancies and spontaneous vaginal deliveries with no complications.  The babies had no problems and I was able to breastfeed easily.  My last baby had health complications during pregnancy (elevated blood pressure), during delivery (preeclampsia) and postpartum bleeding and trouble breastfeeding.
1	My first child was born with a cleft palate which led to othe finding and countless doctors, also multiple surgeries, many times medical professionals expressed that they where impressed with my grasp and understanding of things given the fact that I had no medical training.more so if I informed them I did not even have a full and proper high school education.
-1	I had a lump in my breast and I was concerned because it felt abnormal. I called the doctor and had to describe where it was and how it felt and when I noticed it. If i hadnt known that information then the doctor wouldnt have been able to find it or tell me it was benign.
-1	It has been a long trip with that for over the year I have rarely been ill and the couple time I spend a lot of time researching what and why and can it be resolve forever
1	Well my sister has had a couple kidney transplants. The first time I knew nothing. Know I know all sorts of stuff about it so when people ask me about blood types, transplant compatibility, the process, hospitals, etc. I know quite a bit to tell them. Especially if it is about one of the hospitals it happened at. I know that building like the back of my hand.
-1	Im not sure if anything in past would demonstrate that. The only thing i can think of is that i guessed my brother was bipolar before he was diagnosed.
-1	i had a mamogram with a false positive , it came out false twice. the third time it was good . i took a fourth mamogram and still good, so its very easy to get a false positive
1	Prior to visiting my doctor about my digestive problems I had already done a lot of research about different reasons for the symptoms. This allowed me to explain everything thoroughly so that my doctor knew what was best for me. 
1	When my wife and I recently had norovirus we were able to avoid spending money and going to the doctor or hospital. I knew that we should avoid eating for 24 hours and ride it out and then slowly start eating again. We also cleaned the house to avoid catching the virus again.
-1	since i was a kid i've had asthma. over the years of dealing with it i've learned more about it and what i should avoid (like a lot of exercise or colognes and perfumes). So if I go somewhere and i notice someone spraying cologne or perfume i know to stay away from that area for a little bit or if i'm exercising i know to take it easy and always have an inhaler with me.
-1	There was a time when I pulled out my back and thought it was going to turn out to be a serious injury, but it turned out to be a minor pull and I didn't really need to treat it any further. 
-1	I told my doctor what was wrong with me. I also told him the medication that I needed. I was right about the diagnosis. 
1	I had two back surgeries in my life for herniated discs.  I read a lot about the surgeries and about the condition so I could do my best when meeting with the doctor.  When the first surgery was done I was a novice and only knew some things but by the time the second surgery came along I was an expert.  When he showed me the x-ray of my discs I actually cut him off and told him what the scan showed.  I said there thats the bad disc and that portion needs to be removed in order to alleviate the pain.  I was right and he was somewhat impressed because it was different than the first surgery I had just read so much and looked at so many pictures that I knew what I was talking about.  I also knew that for this surgery they would need to use staples while the first one they used stitches.  
1	When I was diagnosed with Fibromyalgia 20 years ago I started doing a lot of research in books and with people in general.  Doctors tried multiple medicines and I kept getting worst.  I finally started researching the medication and found that through reducing those and actually moving around more that I felt better.  Now we work on just treating major symptoms instead of everything that Fibromyalgia causes and doing exercises.
1	I was able to know that my son was having a manic attack. After his diagnosis of bipolar disorder, the next time he started with non-stop talking and behaviors that were unusual I knew to get him to the ER.  The issue was not going to resolve on its own.  The laughing at inappropriate times was not a joke, it was a sign of mania as well.  He wasn't just having bad behavior, this was a serious illness.  
1	I have had 10 surgeries. I am a breast cancer survivor. I am an audiologist and have worked with doctors, in hospitals, in rehabilitation centers and at the Emory Clinic in Atlanta.
-1	based on my gut feeling i tried to choose the best answer.  To the best of my knowledge without using google i chose the best answer 
1	I had to speak to the doctor about my autoimmune condition. After doing research on the internet, I was able to self-diagnose my condition and identify causes of the condition. I had a good discussion with my doctor having this knowledge beforehand.
1	I had digestive issues a few years ago. I went to my general physician for treatment. Multiple sessions were unsuccessful so I asked for a referral to a specialist. I conferred with he specialist as to what the causes could be and methods of treatment. I made sure to be aware of what tests and medications were being suggested and how they would affect me. Through procedures, medication, and lifestyle changes, we were able to improve my health. 
1	I know that when I am having reflux at night I should lie down to sleep with my head/chest area in an elevated position, otherwise the reflux will get a lot worse.  This happens to me occasionally. 
1	My husband's LDL cholesterol was consistently high.  His doctor recommended a few simple dietary changes to see if it would help.  I researched on my own and changed our diet considerably, and he was able to raise his HDL and lower his LDL by a drastic amount.
1	I had a detached retina. I had an op, the nurses were about to give me the instructions on how to use my eye drops and what I needed to do, but there was an emergency on the ward and they were needed. I wanted to go home but before they would let me go, they insisted I have the talk from them. I summarized all the things I needed to do and the care I needed to take and they agreed I already knew. So i could go!
-1	When I have a friend who is having a child ask me about symptoms and pain and I am able to understand and give her answers
1	"When my daughter was a baby she had a rash and everyone told me that I needed to take her to the DR becuase it was ""definitely"" Scarlett fever. I reseached SF and found out that It was a rash that followed a fever. My daighter did not have a fever at any point during that time. However her grandmother washed her clothes in different detergent. I was able to extrapolate that the cause was the detergent and the rash cleared up soon after we bathed her and put her in different clothes. "
1	My mother had cancer and I visited and talk with many doctors and I made many researches that help me to understand a little bit more some medical issues.
1	Niece had a rash from a plant. Gave her an antihistamine and it went away until she had contact with the plant again.
1	Just last night my daughter said she had a sore throat. I looked at it with a flashlight. There were whiteish/yellow patches on her tonsils. I told her she may have strep. I know that the first thing a doctor asks when you take a child in for strep is if they also have a cough, which she did not. That's an indicator for them to actually do the strep test. Since she didn't have a cough, the doctor did the strep test on her this morning and it was positive.
-1	When I went in for a kidney infection when I was about 4 week pregnant. I told the doctor I knew that's what it was, and he listened. I get kidney infections pretty often and knew what my symptoms were, but the pain was so bad I had to go to the ER and get medication since I was pregnant and I didn't know what I could and couldn't take.
1	One time I ate shrimp and I started to get a rash around my mouth and had some slight swelling in my face and I pulled out some benadryl  and took that because I knew that was good for allergies.
-1	When I had a fever, I self-medicated and I realized that it really worked and heal, it was a good thing because I had never self-medicated before
-1	Before I graduated from high school I enrolled in a magnet program school. This school allowed us to get hands on experience in the fields we found interest in. I always wanted to be a doctor so I got to experience what being part of the medical field was all about. I learned a lot and as a result continue to learn more and more about health care. 
-1	Everyone asks me such things. If I do not already know the answers I find them something related on line someplace. My girlfriend has a daughter who had such a question for me about depression. The kid complains of killing herself these day. She was on zolof, before that prozac. The kid is 15, and been on this shit for several years. I told her to get the kid to a real doc asap and sue the quack that put her on prozac. 
-1	I have health related work experience. I worked home health/personal care/hospice for 12 years. I have also taken some medical classes in college. 
1	My ex was a hypochondriac, so I was always learning about conditions she thought she had and trying to reassure her that she didn't
-1	I HAVE HAD CANCER TWICE AND I ALSO HAVE DIABETES.  I STRUGGLED WITH INFERTILITY AND DID IVF 3 TIMES WITH NO SUCCESS. I HAVE A LOT OF KNOWLEDGE IN ALL THESE AREAS DUE MY PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.
-1	Taking care of my dad and learning about all his medicines and what they were for and how to give them to him.
1	A few years back there was a time where I had an abnormally large lump on my lower back that constantly itched, had a pain around the lump area. Aware of what it may be a cyst of sort, I searched on the web symptoms as to what it actually could be whether or not it was one. Through a thorough search I noticed all of the symptoms were lined up with what I assumed at first and waited it out a few days since it said that it could possibly burst on its own accord and there's not much to worry about aside from going to the emergency room of it actually does burst. So when it finally did on that day I was not only relieved that it wasn't any other sort but confident in my own initial observation.
1	I'm afraid that most of my health knowledge comes from Google. I can recall that I once wanted someone to eat papaya seeds when they had an upset stomach. People thought I was crazy.  I lived in Hawaii and took a chemistry class in high school. I learned that there is apparently an enzyme that is highly concentrated in papaya seeds that is good for an upset stomach.
-1	I guess like in that last question, When I suspected I was having an ear infection come on. I had prior experience in ear infections and have somewhat experience with them. 
-1	I had gastric bypass surgery a year ago. Six months ago, my sister decided to have the surgery as well. I've been able to walk her through from beginning to end. And I had first hand knowledge of what she goes through and feels. 
-1	There was an incident where a young family member had a severe nose bleed and their parent was holding their head back. I told them they should pinch their nose and hold their head forward in order to prevent vomiting because I read an article that it was the right thing to do. 
1	My mother was searching for something on the bottom of a metal shelf, and as she stood back up she banged her head badly on the lower shelf. She was bleeding profusely, and panicking because of it. I explained to her that it looked worse than it was because the blood vessels on our scalp are so close to the surface, even a minor cut can produce a lot of blood.
-1	When I was pregnant with my third son. My whole pregnancy and deliver was completely wonderful and I believe it was because this was my 3rd time. I knew what to expect and what could or couldnt happen.
1	Recently my son cut his toe on some scissors. I cleaned the wound and bandaged it. Then took him to the doctor for stitches. 
1	I have asthma and its rare I have attacks. I know I need a vaporizor with me at certain times of the year no matter how I feel. I was at my sisters and basically had an attack. I useed the vaporizer and it had some affect but I still had a tough time breathing. I knew I had only a couple options. As in try a couple other remedies or go to the hospital. I choose to humidify, put a hot towel on my head and meditate. It worked and didnt go to the hospital. 
1	Several years ago, I was vomiting and having severe abdominal pain. It felt different than just the flu or any other common illness. I had suspected that it was appendicitis, so I went to the hospital and the doctors confirmed that it was appendicitis. 
1	When I went to the doctor last year about my persistent anxiety I was already nearly certain I had social anxiety disorder. I told my doctor about the symptoms and she agreed with me that it was almost certainly SAD.
1	I had a problem with my fingers. After a little bit of researcher I was able to diagnose my problem. I went to the doctor and they gave the same diagnosis.
1	When I went to the pharmacy I used one of the blood pressure monitoring machines and my blood pressure was sky high.  I went back a week later to check again and it was still high so I knew this was bad and have been treating it since.
-1	I had to take a medical/rescue class if something was going wrong on one of the movie set I was working on. The first day after the class finished I saw a woman who just had hurt her head with the truck of her car. As the knowledge was fresh in my head I knew what to do. She was bleeding so I took it seriously. I called an ambulance and I applied first aid while waiting for it.
1	Many years ago I noticed something was wrong with my husband and sent him to the doctor multiple times. Every time they sent him back and said he was fine. Until years later, he saw another doctor who immediately sent him for an ultrasound. He had testicular cancer and had a tumor growing for the past several years. All I knew is if they couldn't tell me what it is, they couldn't tell me what it wasn't-- they had to check.
-1	A time in my life where I demonstrated my knowledge of health was when someone fainted during an accident. I proceed to do CPR to revive the person.
1	I had a herniated disc several years ago. Even though I was recommended to have a discectomy, I went to rehab for three months. During the course of rehab and through research on my own, I acquired the knowledge to manage my back pain without surgery and continued my own rehab program independently until I got back to having pretty normal function.
1	Have a chronic condition now for over 20 years. Am also full time caregiver for my mother, so between those two things, I am pretty confident in meeting our specific needs and understanding what those needs are. 
1	This was when I helped self diagnose thst I had an ovarian tumor that needed surgery People did not believe me just telling me it was a smallcyst  thst would go away. but I was persistent until I got the surgery and it turned out I had a 4cm tumor that was hemorrhagic
1	I have a family member that has Diabetes, and a few times he has had his sugar go too high, and I would recommend to cut back on the carbs, sugar and such, and replace them with fresh vegetables to get nutrition, and fiber while it helps to avoid sending the blood sugar higher. Specifically non-cooked, and no condiments added to it.
-1	I was given the wrong prescription dosage according to my weight. The doctor had it put on the container but I knew it did not sound right so I called in and I was correct. I had done the math according to what I already knew.
1	Learning about Melanoma and helping my wife understand the treatment for it. We got thru it and she is good now. 
1	Recently when my mother was in the hospital I had to explain her condition and the fact that she had MS to doctors and nurses. 
1	When my dad was taken to the hospital for heart problems, I was able to interpret and translate all information that was given by the doctors
-1	I see how medicine side effects are worst than the original problem diagnosed. So if that means either better medicine needs to be created that cures only or stick with medical marijuana can't go wrong there. 
1	When I took my son to the hospital and found out that he has type 1 diabetes I learned a lot of information.  Within a week I learned all about carbs and insulin and how to give shots and what to do if his blood sugar drops.  
1	My daughter fell and spit her head open pretty bad.  She had blood everywhere.  I was able to locate the wound, clean it, and apply pressure.  Once she was under control we went to the hospital to be put back together
1	I recently went into the doctor to get tested for allergies and had to have some pretty high level conversations with my doctor regarding what causes my allergic reactions to medication. I felt that I grasped about 90% of the conversation.
1	I took care of my father when he was in his 90's full time for several years.  He was on several medications and he had in home health nurses that came to visit our home.  I learned about his medications and what I should do to keep him healthy and I demonstrated my knowledge by carrying out his care.  I learned what his diet should be, when he should take his medication, and many other things about general health. 
1	Most if not all of my information that I get about health or medical issues I get from my doctor or my friend who is working to be a medical professional. Any questions I have in those subjects I ask them. Rarely do I get information anywhere else. I think I have moderate amount of knowledge about health and medical issues because of what they have told me. I wouldn't call myself an expert or anything close to that. I will still continue to get my information from medical professionals. All in all there's no experience I can say that shows off my knowledge. I just get a piece of it time from time.
1	I can't really think of a specific situation.  If something is wrong with me like a feel a pain that I hadn't had before, I'll look up online what might be causing the pain.  Then I'll decide whether it's serious enough to see a doctor.
-1	I have had some personally specific injures and illnesses that I think i know a little more about than other ones but aside from that I dont have anything to go off of.
-1	I always have been very careful at getting valuable information on health issues. This is the reason I always have a solution when it comes to people who suffer from something and need advice.
-1	my grandfather had diabetes and as a child i would watch him give himself insulin shots. That is what sparked my interest in the medical field. Last January I enrolled in a medical course where i learned how to measure liquids in a syringe, how to read needles (cc's and ml) as well as how to do medical billing for hospitals and doctors offices.  Since learning this knowledge it has enabled me to have intelligent conversations with others as well as help myself be more knowledgeable about my health and the health of those around me
1	Early in my career I assisted in giving cardiac stress tests.  This included learning that if a patient achieved a certain stage on the test even if they had CAD, their prognosis was statistically equivalent to someone who did not.
1	Being pregnant with twins gave me multiple opportunities to demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues. I had to ask lots of questions and advocate for what I knew was best for me. 
1	After my dads second heart attack I had a good idea of what the procedure would be and how everything would go
1	Once I caught a nasty GI bug which came on suddenly and caused a lot of fluid loss.  Due to previous experiences with dehydration, I was able to recognize when I was losing too many electrolytes and got a friend to take me to the emergency room, where I spent 9 hours getting rehydrated.  If I hadn't known the signs (rapid heartbeat, weakness, skin not snapping back) I would have been in more serious trouble.   
1	I was having an anxiety attack, but knowing what an anxiety attack is, I was able to calm myself down and work through it, without the feeling of dread like I was dying
1	I was told one year ago that I have type 2 diabetes which does not run in my family. Neither am I particularly fond of sweets so I did some research and found that chloresterol reducing medicine that I have been taking some for about 6 years now has been linked to the onset of diabetes. I have stayed on top of this relationship as well as keeping well-informed of diabetes as a whole so that I can better deal with this health condition.
1	I went to a doctor and he told me I had type II diabetes. He recommended some drugs to me, even though I knew it was caused by being overweight. I suggested that the only logical treatment would be to lose weight and stop eating carbohydrates. He agreed with me, but said he thought it was unlikely that I would succeed in losing enough weight.
-1	I once correctly diagnosed a friend of mine as having bronchitis. i could tell by the way he was weezing. He was also having other symptoms that told me he was having this particular trouble. 
-1	I was experiencing pain on my right side along with indigestion.  I presented the problems to the doctor and said I was probably having gall bladder issues.  After tests it was confirmed.
-1	I worked in a speech and hearing clinic and I would often need to read audiograms and patient information. Many clients had medical problems I needed to understand.
1	A few weeks ago one of my children became sick.  I began to monitor his temperature.  When his temperature went over 103 I decided to give him a cool bath and prepare to take him to the doctor if that did not lower his temperature.  After the bath his temperature was down.  I continued o monitor his temperature and give him children's Tylenol until he felt better.
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health related issues recently when my friend had back problems. I told her what stretches to do to improve the area.
1	I was a CNA for a number of years and had to take in service trainings on a regular basis. I also have a large family with lots of medical issues to address
1	My relative had two strokes last year and I assisted her with her recovery. I attended doctor appointments with her and I explained things that she did not understand to her. I helped put the doctors words into a language she could relate to. Also, I helped her ask questions so the doctor could understand what she meant. 
1	When my doctor and I worked together to figure out my anxiety.  For the most part, I was telling him what I thought and he was agreeing.
1	I brought my husband home from the hospital, after telling the nurse he looked worse then when he got in the hospital. She insisted he was okay. So I took him home. My mom said she didn't think he was gonna make it. She was a nurse at a old folks home for 40 years and knew what people should and shouldn't look like. I was so tired I slept a couple hours and then took his pulse and blood pressure. It was so low Im not sure how I got him to the car. But the doctor said to go home, put him to bed, he'll be fine with the meds we gave you. He was in ICU for 4 days and then in the hospital 10 more days after I just brought him home. If I hadn't paid attention he'd be dead.
1	I worked as a certified nursing assistant for three years, and for the last eight and a half I've worked in a pharmacy.
1	I had a physical a few years back, and the blood test results showed that I am anemic. This explained a persistent low energy over the years. Iron supplements were prescribed, and it was explained to me that they would improve my results cumulatively, and that anemia is due to not enough oxygen reaching the organs.
1	Since I like to read about psychiatric illnesses and pharmaceuticals as a hobby, this knowledge is demonstrated whenever I visit a psychiatrist. 
1	I diagnosed my son's strep throat symptoms referring to online medical resources. I was then able to accurately explain to the doctor where the pain was and the film on his glands.
1	i got a bump on my gums and my neighbor said it was an abscess and i would need a root canal but i knew better because there was no pain so i waited until it went away and didn't waste money going to a dentist.
1	i work in a doctors office, i see charts, systems and patients all the time. I also talk to doctors and nurses all of the time. Most of my knowledge is from school as well as work experience. I have experiences all day long with his. 
-1	I learned tons of information regarding various treatments when my grandmother was diagnosed with stage 4 breast cancer, I was her primary caregiver during that time and was present at all medical appointments.
-1	I teach  preschool.  I often provide health information to parents of young children.  My information is based on current CDC information.
-1	Basically anytime I'm sick I know that it's because I've been in contact with sick people and they passed it on to me via some form of contact.
1	I recently was diagnosed with a UTI. I knew from the symptoms, the constant urge to go, burning after urination  and full feeling that it was more than likely a UTI. I went to prompt care and was diagnosed with a UTI and given antibiotics. I was actually suffering with the symptoms for over a week and hoped it would clear up on its own by drinking plenty of water but it only got worse. 
1	When a coworker was telling me about the tightness and discomfort in certain parts of her leg, hip and knee area, I suggested she have her massage therapist have a look at her IT band. Turns out her IT band was extremely tight, so she was given exercises to help out.
-1	I have been going to the doctor for a long time know and I have taken a lot of health classes in my lifetime. Therefore with my combined experience and knowledge I feel comfortable addressing certain medical issues with others. 
-1	I can't really think of anything that describe an experience, but I guess the awareness to know when to go to the doctor and when not to. 
1	any of the doctors I have had over the years had little to no knowledge of the type of kidney disease I had and I was forced to explain my condition and provide littiture about my illness 
1	As I ave mentioned in early blobs I have Congential Adrenal Hyperplasia and Dystonia both conditions I wa born with.  In my early teens I developed asthma and mental health problems and since have had way to much interaction to come away less than jaded.  Though these questions are more about maths than healt.
1	I raised four children and have two grandchildren, so over the years I have known dealt with illnesses and injuries. I have learned common treatments and known how to research and communicate with medical staff.
1	My toe was swelling. THere was pus coming out of it. I looked at the symptoms and searched for it online. I found self-diagnosed the problem
1	My aunt was diagnosed with diabetes after she retired from work. Through this period, I helped her to properly measure her insulin and inject it and I also made sure she kept on top of her pill medication and prescriptions. I often took glucose readings for her and explained how important proper eating and exercise was for her condition.
-1	I was diagnosed with an enlarged prostrate. The Dr. gave me thorough education. I also did my own research and developed a healthier diet. Eating clean and organic food.
1	I have a young daughter that had food allergies when she was very little.  It took many doctor visits and some research on my own to figure what was going on
1	I'm not sure what this prompt is asking. I think when I take my kids in to the doctor, I feel that I'm reasonably rational and calm. I feel like I don't immediately jump to the worst case scenario, though that is what I want to do in my head for myself. I
-1	I mean, most of it is common sense. I'm no where near as knowledgeable as a doctor. For the last 10+ years, instead of spending a bunch of money to go see someone who is only worried about getting through the day, I will just look online. If something weird is going on with my body, I will look online and gather knowledge. 
1	I went over the paper work when bringing my daughter into this world.  Filled out all the insurances.  Worked with my wife in signing documents in the hospital and squared away every issue the doctor brought to us.
1	I am unsure of a situation other than when I get sick, I know which type of medicine to get depending on the symptoms. I also know I do not need to go to the doctor when I have a cold or sinus issues. 
1	when the doctor told me of my arthritis and ha i would have to do to cope with this condition and how to live with it.
1	When my sister was diagnosed with ALS and we had to learn as a family about this disease and how to care for her in the best way possible.
1	I got food poisoning and could not even keep liquids down for days. It got to the point by the third day if I couldn't keep down water I knew I would have to get someone to take me to the hospital because I was extremely dehydrated.
1	I cannot recall a time when I was solicited for medical knowledge until now when I took your survey.  I would only casually discuss such things.  I have no professional credentials.  Only my own knowledge.
-1	 this cancer people effect not taken all over world. it is most people must died.Cancer is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body
1	I rarely seek medical advice from doctors. My last two visits were completely a waste of my time and money. So I have no such example to give you. 
1	I'm not sure if this really counts but a while back in college I noticed that I had put on significant weight and I was more out of breath than usual. I also noticed that I became a lot more thirsty and lazy than usual so I stopped and considered my risk factors. I know that my family has a high history of diabetes and hypertension (and high cholesterol), so I took it upon myself to buy a blood pressure monitor and measure my blood pressure over a period of a week. It was not favorable, so I talked to a nutritionist and made a healthy eating plan as well as an exercise routine. By monitoring it further, I successfully decreased my blood pressure significantly and it has remained in safe levels since I have continued my routine.
1	I once had a painful, bleeding (and puss) coming from my backside. I did a bunch of research on my own before deciding that I 100% had a pilonidal cyst. I went to the doctor and he confirmed the diagnosis. I had outpatient surgery.
1	In my younger years I have been a Master Scuba Diver. That implicated that I had to be up to date with Medic First Aid, Rescue Diving, and I am also a license Oxygen Provider and trained in Enriched Nitrox Diving. I have had a few real rescues in that time and fortunately they all worked out good.
1	Last year I had an extremely sharp pain in my gut on the right side. I thought that I might have a kidney stone. I knew that it could be serious, so I went to the hospital. I ended up having a kidney stone, but it would be passable. They offered me opiate pain medications but I decided not to take them because I know that they have addictive properties.  I ended up passing the kidney stone several days later.
1	I GAVE BIRTH TO 2 SONS, AND BOTH BY VIRGINAL BIRTH. I ALSO BOTH TIME GOT THE EPIDURAL TO HELP WITH THE PAIN. I AM LUCKY THAT I AM NOT ALLERGY TO ANY OF THE DRUG SO IT'S FINE FOR ME TO GET THE EPIDURAL.
1	My brother was shot in the chest in an attempted robbery and i had to help my parents discuss with the doctors everything that was going on. I had to help them understand the complications and the permanent effects that he was going to have. 
-1	I avoided catching diabetes by exercising and eating correctly for most of my life, its is health problem that runs in my family. 
1	I guess when discussing different medical problems with my husband.  I have a different knowledge base than him.  We both bring different knowledge to the table but, I know more about things that I suffer from.  Also, different problems in my family.
-1	My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer 10 years ago and at that time I didnt know much about it. Over the years I have educated myself all about it ans In turn that has given me the knowledge to take preventive measures for myself. A few months ago my aunt was diagnosed as well. Science has come a long way since I first learned about it so that knowledge that I had from the experience with my mom helped me to be prepared for any questions that my aunt had during her process and I think the fact that my mom went through it too help me as well to get through it.
1	I think I learned some information when I started going to the gym regularly years ago. Terms like resting heart rate, maximum heart rate, pulse rate, etc. where in the fore when I took on the aerobic portion of my workout.
-1	When I was 35 I was feeling really bad all of the time.  I fell generally unwell, dizzy, headaches, thirsty all the time, unable to sleep well and just feeling blah.  I had a weird feeling I was diabetic so I started to do some reading about it for a few weeks and got as much information as possible.  I then made a doctor's appointment and told my doctor what symptoms I had and why I thought I had diabetes.  My doctor was impressed with my knowledge and scheduled a test.  A couple days later I found out I was indeed diabetic.
1	When one of my daughters was ill, I knew that she was in a medical emergency situation as her fever shot very high. Though she was an adult, I knew she was incapable of handling this herself and rushed her to the ER, which the doctors said was good and immediately gave her treatment to bring down the temp safely and quickly. I was her advocate and wouldn't stop explaining her other symptoms, which they ran extensive tests on after I insisted and found the root cause. It was at that point they were able to correctly give her the medicine to properly treat her condition.
1	My son had some kidney problems related to an infection and had blood drawn to test his kidneys. I received the lab results via email from the hospital laboratory was able to read and interpret them myself before I received a call from the doctor about them.
-1	Being in the military has given me a little bit more exposure to the medical and health issues. We practice a lot of medical procedures. Also going to Afghanistan has allowed me to work on casualities. 
-1	I have not had major medical issues, I'm not sure how to answer this question. I guess I know about eating healthy and some about how the body works, but not really medically related.  
1	I knew the technical terms used by the doctor during my husband's cancer treatment.  I also knew the doctor was not keeping up with the latest science and he confirmed that to be true, given his schedule.
1	I worked in a rural hospital that served as the local area cancer treatment center on the weekends.  I would sit for hours and register patients for treatment the following day.  I would have to file lab and xray results into their charts.  This was before everything went paperless.  I spent a lot of time reading notes and diagnosis because I worked a lot of second and third shifts.  I was still in college and I tried to make the most of my time when I was a work.  
1	My brother had been in the hospital and he didn't have insurance. We lived in NJ at the time and they add an additional amount onto your bill as an uninsured patients fund. I believe it was about 50% of the bill. I called around and after much effort discovered that uninsured patients weren't required to pay this part of the bill. It was only for insurance companies. I eventually received a form from the state of NJ and had my brother complete it and he mailed it. After we received the response, I still had to travel to the hospital and show it to the billing office because they were still refusing to adjust his bill. After I provided them with a copy of the response, they eventually adjusted his bill and he was able to pay the rest of the bill with the assistance of a plan he had that paid him for every day he spent in the hospital (about nine days). Sorry, this is the only experience I had that was related to your question.
1	"I was told I have high cholestrol and needed to make changes to improve that. I knew that it meant i had to get my bad cholestrol ""LDL"" to below 100 and the good cholestrol ""HDL"" to above 50."
1	A few years ago I got in shape and lost a lot of weight. I had a chance to demonstrate my knowledge of health when I helped a friend to also loose a few pounds with healthy eating and exercise. 
-1	When I had an STD scare, I had to look for issues and symptoms in certain places. I had to research and use my common knowledge on the issue.
1	I wasn't feeling well and I went to the doctor. I had been feeling extremely tired and lacking  energy. I wondered if I had mono so I ended up going to the doctor. I ended up having mono, so I guess I was right.
1	I have absolutely no idea what you're asking. But I'll give this a shot. I recently saw a neurologist for another shot at figuring out what's causing the muscle weakness I've been experiencing for more than four years now. I was able to give her a timeline of symptoms, severity of the problem, list the tests that have been performed, and ensure that she understood everything. I asked her about a specific test, and she agreed that would be a logical next step. 
1	while at a restaurant, a patron was signalling that she was choking after eating a chicken wing. i recalled learning the heimlich maneuver in school, and i was able to successfully perform the procedure.
1	One time, my nephew cut his hand and was very nervous.  I proceeded to not only stop the bleeding, but give him a lesson in basic first aid.  This involved methods for stopping bleeding, barriers to infection, and treatment of bruises or sprains.  He found this lesson interesting and informative and demonstrated these skills later on when injuring his ankle a few weeks later.
1	Once my gums above a certaion tooth became swollen and inflamed and it really hurt. I had no idea what it was but then I realized that a cavity that I had neglected to get taken care of was to blame. I went to the emergency room and they took an x ray and confirmed that it was an abscessed tooth.
1	My pregnancy required that I ask my doctor lots of questions about symptoms that I was experiencing. I frequently went to each appointment with a list of questions about what was normal and what was not. My doctor was impressed that I had learned so much about pregnancy and pregnancy complications.
1	Woman problem. I had my period for 8 months straight before my doctor got me into a specialist (gyno). I was quite confident when I was able to go back to my doctor and repeat what my gyno had said and understood what I was talking about. hyperplasia is the overgrowth of uterine tissue, which was causing that issue, but I also had multiple cysts at different times on different ovaries, but not in my uterus.
1	I knew I had knowledge of health or medical issues. When I pretty much diagnosed myself and told my doctor what was wrong with me. She ignored me and treated me for something else. Well I was back in there after my treatment was over and asked her to test me for what I thought was wrong. The testing showed I was right.
1	I had gained a lot of weight at one point, so I decided to lose the weight. I went on a diet and exercise program I made up for myself. I reduced my calories and fat consumption. Also, I decided to start running most days. I lost around 100 pounds in about 9 months. During this diet I was kept very close tract of my calorie consumption. I was ware of how many calories different foods have.
1	I don't have any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have never faced a life experience that required me to know anything. I do know about basic health issues such as obesity or what it feels like to have high blood pressure but i've never been in a situation where i had to demonstrate it.
-1	I cant say that Ive ever had knowledge of medical issues that Ive been diagnosed with before being told about the issue and what it is. As far as health issues I know that its not good to smoke or drink a lot. I know that keeping active and eating right help aid in staying healthy things like that.
-1	I have a thyroid issue where my body doesn't produce calcium. Ive had this issue for about 15 years. I have to see the doctor regularly because it can cause seizures.
1	I was at a festival and a person was experiencing dizziness and nausea. I noticed that the person was wearing heavy clothing even though it was a hot day. I asked the person if they'd drank any water that day and they had not. I thought that the person may be dehydrated and overheated and told him he should slowly drink as much water as he could and to place a wet towel over his head and neck. 
1	My brother was recently in a car accident and in the years preceding I volunteered by Special Olympics, therefore I understood how to work a wheelchair, transfer a patient from a bed to the the chair, and other such apparatus know-how. 
1	I have been dealing with persistent colds and respiratory infections and recently, I looked up what I can do to get rid of them and have been taking steps in making sure that I no longer deal with them.  I have been eating healthy, exercising and sharing my tips with friends and family.
1	I am not good with math, so I need someone to thoroughly explain such stats to me rather than depending on my math skills. Most doctors I have had are willing to do that. 
1	I don't necessarily have knowledge of these issues. Whenever I or my family members have issues I usually research on the internet or consult with doctors or people who have been trained in this field.
-1	I was seen by an orthopedic surgeon for a chronic ACL tear and osteoarthritis in my left knee. I did physical therapy, and when I was released from therapy, he told me I'd be back in a couple years for a knee replacement. I told him not to hold his breath. Came home, and started walking longer distances - 4-6 miles a day. I lost 20 pounds, and took several anti-inflammatory and ligament strengthening supplements, and kept walking. That was 16 years ago, and I still have my knee, thank you. By the way - the doctor I saw needed to lose about 50 pounds.
1	Several years ago my father was in the ICU after being unfortunately caught in a store robbery. He was shot 3 different times and the medical issues were immense. I was successfully able to listen and understand the doctors as they were explaining everything to my family and I. Other family members came to me to explain it better in layman terms to them. 
1	My wife is a nurse and we have been married for nine years and she helps me understand all sorts of medical issues. Her along with Google makes things a lot easier to understand.
1	I had some heart related issues early on in life so I think I learned about cardio matters a lot earlier than most people which has helped me stay informed with health matters.
1	Working on a jobsite years ago a coworker cut his hand badly, so badly that he cut a vein and it was squirting blood along with his heartbeat. He was losing blood quickly. I knew to put a tourniquet on the arm to stop the bleeding so he could travel to the emergency room.
-1	I studied medical assistant program and it has given me some knowledge of various tests and procedures as well as health and medical issues. It has also helped working in this environment and from reading and office/hospital visits.
-1	I had a bad cut on my hand that probably could have benefited from having stitches. I took care of it on my own, however, from previous experience with bad cuts. Through proper bandaging, cleaning, and maintenance, I was able to heal the cut in about two weeks. 
-1	"My husband had severe pain in his left side after a pleurodesis procedure. He also had a fever, an elevated white blood cell count, and constipation. The doctor insisted it was just ""residual pain"" and the body's response to the procedure, while I kept arguing that it was more likely he had an infection of some kind. The doctor refused to do any blood work or send him for a CT scan to be sure, so we left that hospital AMA and went to another facility's emergency room. They found out my husband had a ruptured intestine, which required emergency surgery. He died 22 days later of sepsis from that rupture. Doctors don't always know everything and should learn to pay attention when their patients say something else is wrong."
1	every week, when we have exams, my knowledge on medial issues is tested in more ways than i can explain. Boards, are the ultimate test of my knowledge i guess, and thats in 3 mnths. 
1	I have borderline cholesterol issues.  So I have done a lot of research on eating properly  to keep that from going up.  I actually had it go down into a very normal range.
1	I hade to remove my gallbladder afte experiencing pain and found that I had multiple gallstones so I went through many tests and a medical medical surgery
1	In the past 1.5 years, I have lost 95 lbs. I had to pull from my knowledge of exercise and nutrition to achieve this. Additionally, I have had to understand how this affects my blood sugar, cholestrol, pulse, and heart rate. I have also had negative effects from my health goals in terms of exercise causing me injury and extreme pain. I have had to pull from my knowledge of how muscles, bones, and cells work to design plans that have gradual enough progress to prevent injury.
-1	An experience in my life when I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is in being able to assist when people are having seizures. 
1	I don't have a good knowledge on health medical issues. I take my doctor's advise or someone in the medical profession like a nurse. I know that because I am diabetic I need my blood sugar to be between 180 to 80 to be normal after eating 2 hours ago but within 4 hours or eating. In the morning before I eat it should to between 80 to 120. I know I should eat between 45 grams to 60 grams of carbs per meal, and 15 to 20 grams for a snack.
1	I honestly cant think of one where I have but Im always willing to go the doctor if something is wrong
1	my brother is a diabetic so once my friend was telling me he wasn't feeling well and he described  his symptom and   from my experience i could tell he had low blood sugar
1	I went in for a gastrointestinal issue and it was deemed that I needed a colonoscopy.  I was given a list of medications to consume in preparation as well as a process to follow for the surgery.  Without any assistance, I took the list and prepared myself for what turned out to be a successful procedure.
1	After tearing my ACL in 2012, I ended up re injuring it once again in 2013 and had to have two surgeries. By the second surgery I was already prepared with what I had to do for recovery and rehab. 
1	I had been vomiting every morning for 4 months. I saw 6 different types of doctors and none could give me a diagnosis or any relief. I did my own research and discovered Cyclical Vomiting Syndrome. I brought the empirical guidelines to my doctor and have had successful treatment since.
1	My family has a long history of diabetes, heart disease and breast cancer knowing this has helped me recognize sysmtoms, prevention and care for those disease also.
1	When I got hired to work security for a large corporation, they put us through a special version of the CPR training so that we can be informed and help if anything were to happen while we are on post. I had previously taken the CPR training because I spent some time working at a hospital briefly and they required it. I demonstrated my knowledge by completely acing all of the tests and the demonstrations they had me perform, and even helped out other people who were having difficulties performing the tasks.
1	I researched and implemented a medical protocol (long-term, low-dose antibiotic) to recover from the affliction of undifferentiated monoarticulating HLA-B27-related spondyloarthropathy, in which I eventually went into remission after 3 years (that was 20 years ago, so I'm calling it permanent remission), avoiding becoming a certain cripple with a compromised immune system, or dead, as my colleague's husband ended up, from T-cell lymphoma, having the same doctor as I but actually following his advice to take methotrexate.
1	I was diagnosed with general anxiety disorder several years ago. I had already suspected that diagnosis before going to to see the therapist as I had recognized panic attacks I was having as such, and also thought about other recent symptoms. I had looked up anxiety related disorders online, as well as various treatments (types of therapies, various drug treatments) before making my appointment. When the therapist diagnosed me and asked if I was interested in drug prescription as well as therapy I was able to ask about the various options, how they would affect my life, and what the possible side affects would be. 
1	I was having knee pain.  First surgeon I saw recommended knee replacement.  This seemed extreme for the kind of pain I was having.  I sought another opinion and had microfracture surgery instead.  
1	One of my grandsons was pulling on his right ear one day.  He couldn't talk yet so I knew something was bothering him.  He had a slight fever and just wasn't himself.  I figured it was an ear infection.  We took him to the doctor and it was an ear infection.  
1	I had a growth on the side of my torso that became inflamed every 3-4 months. One time it got very inflamed. I didn't know what it could be, so I went to doctor to have it checked. 
1	I've always had problems with cramping during my periods, and have had a history of ovarian cysts.  I had multiple exploratory surgeries to remove the cysts.  The cysts came on a cycle of approximately every five years, I would have surgery every five years to have them removed.  Finally after quite a bit of research and discussion with my doctor it was decided to do a partial hysterectomy and remove my uterus to see if that would break the cycle.  this worked for ten years, at that time I started getting the cysts on my ovaries again, with the pain being 75% of the month.  it was decided that my ovaries needed to come out to prevent this from happening.  By my doctor being informed on what the best course of action was for me I was able to keep my ovaries for a longer period of time, therefore not having to take synthetic hormones until absolutely necessary. 
1	When I was told I was pregnant. I immediately started taking folic acid, I scheduled my doctor's appointment, I stopped drinking alcohol, and I started trying to reduce my stress.
1	As someone who grew up with family members in the medical field and being around people who often had to take medication, I feel that I've had enough early exposure that I'm not uncomfortable around medicine. I'm also in pre-nursing at the moment so some of the pre requisite classes I've taken as well as advanced reading I'm undertaking have given me some insight and knowledge into these kinds of things
1	I do not have any experience at all regarding health or medical. Everything I know if from experience or looking it up online or in a book. Or asking my mother.
1	My son when he was young began choking on a grape in a restaurant.  I was able to perform the Heimlich Maneuver on him successfully.
1	When my children ran high fevers, I would take them to the Dr.  When one child got the chicken pox, I knew what the symptoms were, and was able to tell when my second child got chicken pox because they exhibited the same symptoms.
1	The only thing that I can really think of is a time when I developed pneumonia.  As I stated earlier in the survey, I never go to the doctor unless I'm sure something is wrong.  I felt myself over the course of a two week period becoming less energetic and more and more out of breath doing simple everyday things.  I continued to go to work during that time assuming that my body would defend itself and I would snap out of it.  When I coughed at work and expelled a mass of oddly colored phlegm, I new something wasn't right and went to the doctor that afternoon after work.  That's when I was diagnosed with a form of walking pneumonia.  I hope that's near to what you're looking for.
1	I have raised a family , with two children, who are now 34 and 36 years old.  I faced and dealt with the whole spectrum of childhood mishaps, common illnesses, and accidents, thank God successfully.  Mainly I got good at discerning when medical help was absolutely needed and when I could handle it myself with  ordinary first aid and care.
-1	My husband was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes close to a year ago. We both have become very educated on eating healthier and also managing insulin levels. 
1	My friend asked me about a test that he got at the doctor. I looked it over and actually had some knowledge about it. I explained what I knew about it to ease his mind, and told him to get more info from his doctor.
1	When my friend had an asthma attack, I was able to talk her through it.  By calming her down, locating her rescue inhaler and administering said inhaler.  In having the condition myself, I know it can be scary and responding with calm is much better than responding with panic.
1	When one of my kid is sick, I have to trust my knowledge of health in deciding when they need to see a doctor or if we can treat their illness at home.
1	I had cancer. I had to learn and adapt very quickly. While I went through treatment I had to trust my doctors that they were being open and honest with me about my cancer.
-1	I have always been a fast learner and exceptionally bright. For this reason I read most things I found lying around the house when I was a baby. I also try to keep track of health issues as they arrise for myself or family should the need arise to seek additional care.
-1	I would have to say that an experience that I demonstration my knowledge on health and medical issues would be when I gained 15 lbs in a year and decided that was way too much.  It was caused by a medication I was taking so I requested to get off that medication, started walking fast everyday and lost the weight. 
1	I am an emergency medical technician. Everyday that I work, I see, diagnose, and treat life-threatening medical conditions. I am interested in medicine and ask questions frequently.
-1	I am a runner and when I received injured to my foot I would study resources relating to the anatomy of the bones and muscles in my foot so I could pinpoint what was going wrong and how to fix it. Later on, when I would go to my podiatrist, they would explain possible symptoms to me. I was able to hold a comprehensive conversation because I had learned much about how the foot works and learned the jargon necessary to convey a detailed diagnosis.
1	I started to develop a rash on my arm/wrist and visited a dermatologist to help determine the cause of the rash. In preparing for the visit, I listed out foods I had recently eaten as well any outdoor activities that may have had me come into contact with any plants or insects. In talking through the situation with the dermatologist, I mentioned that I had eaten a cherry pie very recently to which he noted that certain red dyes in such foods can cause random rashes. Since all other foods I had eaten were not out of the norm and my activities did not bring me into contact with any poisonous plants, we were able to determine that that pie consumption was the most likely root cause.
1	A friend asked me where she should go for prenatal checkups. I felt that my doctor was knowledgeable and caring so I sent my friend to that doctor. The friend was pleased with the doctor.
1	My knowledge about health issues, starting with myself, was when I had my wisdom teeth pulled under general anesthesia at the age of 22.  I also had a cryosurgergical procedure done following an abnormal pap smear.  Cervical cancer runs on my mother's side of the family.  I've had a C-section, Appendectomy, Gall Bladder removal and taken care of my mother with dementia to her last days on this Earth.
1	I have a thyroid disorder and through much research and dr visits I am able to tell exactly where my thyroid level should be for me to feel my best.
1	My mother had Parkinson's Disease and I unfortunately had to learn about Parkinson's Disease and he stages of the disease itself. 
1	I have learned that to reduce your weight and improve your health is to reduce the amount of fats and carbohydrates in your diet.  So I changed my diet to reduce those types and food and I reduced my weight and improved my blood pressure.   My plan is to continue you this year since I want to lose another 20 pounds.
1	I recently had a medical scare where I thought I was catching a serious cold. I had a high temperature and was extremely sick. I knew I should go to the doctor immediately so I did so and got antibiotics. 
1	I have found bee propolis and elderberry to be very effective in treating the common cold. While on my job I have in many instances seen people who were sick quickly recover after I give them a couple of capsules of these. They are effective because they enhance and boost the immune system to fight the virus.
1	I had some shoulder pain that I had researched a lot on my own before I went to the doctor.  The analysis I was able to give about the type of pain and the motions that caused it helped us pinpoint it much more quickly than if I hadn't done so.
1	I used to be a medical transcriptionist. My grandmother had gotten home from a doctor's appointment and had not understood what exactly they were telling her. Upon hearing what the doctor told her, I was able to explain some terms to her that she didn't know what they meant before.
1	I don't know if I could do that the best I can come up with is that I know some good ways to prevent myself from having a seizure and I can also feel when they are coming on in time for me to get somewhere safe. That is pretty much the extent of my knowledge I don't know how to do much that is not related to that is pretty much my life.
-1	I ripped the tendon in my arm from the elbow to hand, when I went to the emergency room they wanted to xray the arm, I told them several times it was not a bone, however, the xrayed it and found nothing wrong, after going to my pcp and having an mri, he found the tendon was ripped. I worked as a pharmacy tech for many years, so when people come in with a fever, that you can alternate between tylenol and advil every 3 hours. I can usually help my friends when something is wrong by giving them advice about what to take, such as my friend had hurt her knee and was having trouble walking on it, so I told her to take ibuprofen and ice it, the next day she was able to walk and went to the dr.
1	I can't think of anything particularly demonstrative. After experiencing certain conditions, I am better able to determine whether I am experiencing the same thing again or having a new experience.
1	Every time I have an extreme pain in my back flank then I know I have a kidney stone.  Then I get to go to the hospital, have the nurse completely not trust me thinking I'm addicted to pain killers so I get to sit in agony until they finally believe me.
1	My friend was getting lightheaded and dizzy.He was complaining of headaches often and he had a couple of fainting spells and had an irregular heartbeat. I knew the signs of high blood pressure and suggested they get checked out just in case. Sure enough high blood pressure was the diagnosis.
1	I was a registered Surgical Technologist, So I've taken classes that pertain to health and surgery. I've also had family members that have had lots of medical issues. 
1	My finace was in a lot of pain and having trouble going to the bathroom. the pain was mild the first day but by the third day it was very bad and he was nasueted. His syptoms were simlar to an apendicitic from what i googled, but he had already had his appendix removed 20 years prior. i told him something is very wrong and we need to seek emergency care because what he ha sis not just a stomach ache. It turned out he had blockage from the cra tissue that was left form the apendicitis and the scar tissue and been slowing down is ability to pass waste over the years. the doctor said his condition could have killed him if i had waited longer to get him to the emergency room.
1	I've broken fingers and toes and splinted them myself, I've dressed wounds, I've given myself stitches. I'm former law enforcement and also a certified first responder and CPR card holder.
1	A few years ago I fell on the ice and broke a rib. I did not go to the doctor. I believe that a rib needs time to heal and that there was not much a doctor could have done for me.
-1	When buying groceries I always look at the ingredients and calories on the back of it. I also try to make sure I dont eat fatty, high cholesterol food.
1	My mom was getting really sick and I was taking care of her.  I needed to know everything that I could about what was being told to me by the drs and nurses so I did quite a bit of research on the internet about her condition so that I could better understand what they were talking about and what tests they were running.
1	I had a kidney stone when I was 8 years old and I was in the hospital for 5 days with them having no idea what I had going on. I also had 5 miscarriages in my later years. They couldn't figure out what that was caused by either. 
1	I haven't had one because my family doesn't believe in doctors and I have no health insurance because that's for people who actually have money.
1	Losing weight and calculating how many calories I needed to eat, what to eat, and how much to exercise to keep my appetite satisfied and fuel my body demonstrated my knowledge of health.  I also always make sure to wash my hands whenever I go out in public.
1	I had the flu recently, a few weeks ago actually. I did not go to the doctor since i don't have insurance. I drank plenty of fluids and took aspirin and cough syrup, and after a few days of bed rest I felt much better.
1	A few years ago I had a blood test that showed a slightly elevated blood glucose level. I was told I was prediabetic. Because of this I ate better and more healthly, lost a bit of weight with exercise. Because of that I was able to lower my levels. 
-1	I was asked if a certain diet would work and I did know for certain that it didn't work because asked about the same thing from my doctor. I thought it was neat that I was able to explain and answer why it didn't work.
-1	Having to get a mammogram done it was something I never had before now oi have to go back for another test 
1	I advised a friend from discontinuing a prescription drug because of severe side effects that they didn't know were associated with the drug because it wasn't in the pamplet provided.
-1	Before I  was diagnosed with Essential Tremors, I knew something was not right. So to avoid cutting my throat while shaving or spilling anything else I was trying to put into my mouth. I went to my doctor to see what was going on and if it could be fixed. Not fixed but controlled, that works for me. 
-1	Recently, my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. I accompanied her to several of her appointments and was able to help interpret some of the information she was given, as she was very overwhelmed.
1	I have several fruit allergies including bananas, kiwi, strawberries, and grapes. As a young child we did not know this. When I would eat any of these items individually I would get a mild upset stomach however one day my mom gave me bananas and kiwi cut up on a plate for a snack. After eating most of it i had shortness of breath and hives on my chest. I knew I was having an allergic reaction and needed help. I've seen an lergic reaction from my cousin who cannot have milk but one day decided to try it. I let my mom know and she gave me benadryl which countered the symptoms.  
1	I had taken antibiotics and got sick for months afterwards. I was able to present the information to my doctor and he agreed that it was correct .
1	Both of my parents have experienced cancer diagnosis, so I am more familiar with some of what they went through.  Sometimes things are normal, then the next day something can happen that will change your life.  To understand the options is very important to me, so I have read books and talked to doctors to help me understand the options in each situation.
1	I have broken one bone in my life, my collarbone. When that happened I knew what it was and went to the dr and followed their advice of using a sling and taking pain medication at the specified intervals. They also said they dont often reset broken collarbones anymore cause there wasnt much evidence of them healing better by doing that and it causes a lot of pain to reset that bone so we didnt reset it. 
1	My son has had medical issues since birth.  I have brought up possible conditions, on more than one occasion, that doctors were not concerned about or not going to test for.  After testing, he was diagnosed with that specific condition(s).
1	When my daughter was born, she had nuchal cord strangulation, causing lack of oxygen and subsequent Cerebral Palsy - Right Hemiplegia. She was diagnosed at 10 months old and has been in occupational and physical therapies since then. She's 14 years old now. She had speech therapy for 3 years. Over the years, I've learned a lot medically about her condition, symptoms, and comorbid disorders. I've compiled a very thick binder with more than 600 therapy activities, including almost of her plans of care since 2010. She's doing very well now, but I've done a lot of at-home therapy activities as well as having taken her to therapy once a week for all three therapies for 13 years. 
1	My mom is an RN and I've had a lot of health issues. I don't know what else you expect me to tell you.
-1	I've worked in a hospitalfor 2 years, currently working at a family practice as a medical assitant that works with 2 doctors and a nurse practionoier. I plan on going back to school to become a nurse so i will be able to freshen up on all my medical leraning.
-1	In high school I was in an advanced placement biology and anatomy class, and they taught me so much about basic health sciences that I should know. 
-1	"Experience is the knowledge or mastery of an event or subject gained through involvement in or exposure to it.[1] Terms in philosophy such as ""empirical knowledge"" or ""a posteriori knowledge"" are used to refer to knowledge based on experience. A person with considerable experience in a specific field can gain a reputation as an expert. The concept of experience generally refers to know-how or procedural knowledge, rather than propositional knowledge: on-the-job training rather than book-learning."
1	I have always been interested in health and medicine. I believe healthy living starts with the nutrients (food) you put in your body. Exercise and a healthy lifestyle in general is important to health success.
1	I smoked for many years. I decided I wanted to be healthier so I quit smoking and began training for a 10 mile run. I new if I didn't make changes to my life style, I would not live a long healthy life. 
-1	I went to the doctor with what I thought was a bronchitis infection. The doctor confirmed that is what it was and gave me the necessary antibiotics. I have several bronchitis infections so I knew what the symptoms were before going to the doctor.
1	My friend hurt his arm and i quickly informed him that it was not brokern because i was able to tell it was not.
-1	it would be when i found out that i had diabetes and i had to take a certain amount of insulin and it took a bit of knowledge about medical issues to do so 
-1	I don't have any experiences in my life that I can remember that can demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues in my life. Unfortuanetely I am not able to think of anything 
1	Those were tough at the end. I really got most of my knowledge from my schooling. I was going to go as a pharmacist but ended up just going for biology and chemistry. I also have had some severe stays in the hospital upwards of a month from my brain injuries and I worked in a hospital for a year.
-1	I basically read and studied any material that I have come across on medical issues and diseases. It's crazy how you are more knowledgeable than some mainstream doctors. 
1	I go to the rheumatologist on a regular basis and she is always telling me the likelihood of worsening conditions in percentages.  I find it easy to understand this info fairly easy.   
1	After having gallbladder surgery, I was still having bowel issues.  I researched online and found what the problem was and what could be done to remedy.  I made and appointment with my doctor and described, and he prescribed the medicine and it took care of the problem.
1	In high school, I did my health presentation on atherosclerosis and that taught me a lot about causes of plaque build-up and how the body manages it through a mixture of LDL and HDL fats. It was a half hour presentation and I used visualizations on a computer to illustrate the process. That project also showed me how I could use better sources of information that were available to me, like Nature and Scientific American to get a detailed understanding of health processes.
-1	I work in healthcare so I practice my knowledge for health and medical issues on a daily basis it is my passion and Im very proud of my work field.
1	My daughter has Chiari 1 Brain Malformation. We've been to many different emergency rooms and doctors offices where the staff and doctors were not familiar with her condition. We have had to educate many doctors and healthcare workers about Chiari and how it is treated. 
1	One morning I woke up and felt extremely lightheaded. It was a hot summer day and I had not been drinking much water that week. I nearly fainted when I went to go use the bathroom. I figured occurred  because of the extreme heat and because I had been so dehydrated during the week. I immediately got me a cold glass of water and put on lighter garments. I allowed myself to sit and rest and made sure I had drunk plenty of water throughout the day. I did not have any other episodes like this since.
1	When I went to a doctor last year about painful anal fissures and haemorrhoids, I was already pretty well informed about them. This was due in part to having researched them in the past, both in how they relate to poor diet and how they can be caused or exacerbated by anal sex. I already knew going in that these would take a long time to heal, so I didn't expect a quick recovery. Furthermore, I was able to ask better clarifying questions during my appointment due to my prior knowledge, which helped me understand what I needed to do as well as diagnose the cause more quickly.
1	I went a course on how to provide cpr to a paitient no I am ready for when ever anything happens to one of my family members in order to administer CPR. I know that it can revive someone having a heart attack, and my father has had a heart attack so just in case it happens again I can bring him back to life again. I also spend a lot of time with my grandmother so it will be very useful to know this knowledge beforehand just in case anything happens. I highly recommend everyone taking a CPR course and learning about what it can do for people in danger.
1	I have diabetes II. I met with a nutritionist who taught me how to eat right to keep my blood sugar levels good. I learned what to buy & eat. She was right. When I eat the right foods my blood sugar is great.
1	Well, I had my first child almost two years, prior to getting pregnant with that child, I had an early miscarriage and learned that I also likely have PCOS which could make it difficult to get pregnant again in the future.  Prior to being diagnosed with this I did not know about this issue, but now through those appointments and talking with a couple of friends, I feel like I know a lot more.
1	when I was sick with a respiratory illness I mad fresh garlic tea and fresh chopped garlic releases allicin which is good medicine
1	Being diagnosed with a chronic disease has made me aware of issue pertaining to it. I know more about auto-immune diseases now, and am familiar with symptons and treatments of them. I know what others are going through.
-1	It was one time when a friend of mine felt very bad and we had to do something immedialety to make him feel better. I took some alcohool and immediately noticed he was feeling better.
1	I was poisoned with palytoxin. I was hospitalized for two days. The whole toxicology came down and thought I was bit by a lionfish when in fact I was poisoned by zoanthids. I had a terrible reaction, I got hives, every part of me started swelling and I had a hard time breathing. I learned a lot about what they had to do in order to treat me.
1	A doctor gave me a prescription and said to take a certain amount of mg for 10 days. The math did not add up. I would have needed another full bottle to fulfill the directions. I called and was told that I needed a second bottle for my prescription
1	I can't honestly think of any situation like this, I rarely go to the doctor or have any medical problems. I suppose just knowing that a pain in a certain spot on my back could be a kidney stone counts but I only know that because I've had one.
1	I have had two prostate surgeries. From speaking with my PCP, the surgeon, and my own research, I went into them knowing what to expect. There were no surprises. Although the first was successful, I was in the low percentage group that had recurrence and required additional surgery. That was successful and I have not been bothered since.
1	Most recently, our newborn was having mucous and traces of blood in her stool, and because of our prior experience with our first child, we knew right away this was an allergic reaction to dairy/soy protein in my wife's breast milk.  We cut dairy and soy out of her diet and she perked right up in a few days and her stools normalized.  
-1	I was studying to be a massage therapist and a client came in with serious back problems. They asked me what muscles I would work out and if I could help address the issue and possible fix it. I had to learn anatomy to be able to work on clients so I worked on a specific muscle group I had learned about in class and they felt much, much better after I had worked on them. It definitely helped learning anatomy, otherwise I would be of no help to anyone.
-1	An experience would be when I was younger my mother was hospitalized and during that time my dad was living in a different country. He was not able to be here with us because of money issues, so I had to care for her for over a year and I had to learn how much medicine she had to take and every how many hours. When I would take her to her doctors appointment I had to make sure that the doctors knew that she was allergic to a few medicines so that they wouldn't prescribe her those and I had to memorize the medicines that she was already taking. This expanded my knowledge on medical issues and health. 
1	I had a friend/coworker who had a peculiar change in some patterns that I noticed. He was using the bathroom more often and constantly refilling his water bottle throughout the day. We are software engineers, and he also complained about issues he was having while typing on the keyboard, which he attributed to repetitive stress. I have family members who have had diabetes and suggested that he might want to see a doctor, as some of the issues mentioned above are symptoms. It turns out that I was correct and he is now receiving treatment for it.
1	Prior to my first spinal fusion, I had a list of questions for my doctor. He was surprised at the amount of research I had done in order to be informed. I asked specific questions about the XLIF procedure that he had proposed and what the difference in recovery times and success were in relation to other procedures. I asked specifically where the bone marrow would be drawn from in order to create the fusion. We had a great discussion and he was happy to answer what he referred to as very intelligent questions.
-1	I just had an xray done on my back to see if my scoliosis has worsened, i now have a double curved. It's still not bad enough to do surgery but they recommend physical therapy or it may worsen over the next 5 years. Knowing the risks, I can't afford physical therapy sadly, but if it gets bad enough my insurance covers surgery.
1	I am an American Heart Fellow. I did a fellowship in a department of medicine and was a research-track faculty in a medical school. I have been a part of two cancer centers (within academic institutions).
1	I had a strong pressure in my lower chest region. It turned out to be just gas and I was able to self diagnose. i went to the doctor anyways and they confirmed.
-1	I have a son that is 2 years old so I make sure I know everything about what is going on with his health so that he stays in good health. I know what eczema looks like and how to treat it as well as what he should be eating and drinking to stay healthy.
1	I had gotten strep throat many times growing up.  I became familiar with how the illness felt and I can now identify when I am getting it.
1	I have to stop smoking since it might cause me to get lung cancer. I exercise regularly.  I eat healthy food. I have a medical checkup regularly.
1	I had a mammogram a few years ago and I had to come back because my breast where dense and they were not sure what they were reading. I had to havce a different test and everything was ok, they just needed a baseline.
-1	When I was told that I had cirrhosis of the liver stage 4, I knew where to look up the diet and treatment and what to do if it got worse.  I also found out what to consume and not consume 
-1	I have a son who has asthma and food allergies. I have successfully managed his health issues and am slowly teaching him to do the same.
1	I was able to convince a family member that there was a possibility that they might have the flu and pneumonia.  He was weak, coughing and getting worse by the day.  I made an appointment for him and sure enough he was diagnosed with flu and pneumonia.
1	Having my dad ill and needing medical attention at home after a total knee replacement. He needed heparin shots and saline flushes through an IV.  
1	One time, a friend of mine got sick. I went over to check on him and make sure he was okay and was able to get him to feel better by buying the right medicine, food and liquids he needed. That is about as much knowledge as I have and if I needed more, I'd have sent him to the doctor.
1	There was a time where I was having serious sleep issues and problems keeping my energy level up. I pretty quickly identified it as not normal and that I needed to get it looked at, and was able to see a doctor for it. I was able to get a diagnosis for hypothyroidism to help with my energy problems.
1	When I was younger I  lost a lot of weight by researching the right foods and a good exercise routine, ( i have since put the weight back on). I looked up all the right foods to help with different things and was able to clear up my acne and lose a good deal of weight and well as increase my strength and stamina. I also help other member of my family get into better shape
1	As a teenager, I was correct in telling my mother to go the hospital based on her appearance. It turned out her blood pressure was dangerously high and she ended up being admitted.
-1	My daughter was diagnosed with laryngomalasia which was her airway not completely opened. She eventually grew out of it. When i took her to the hospital they did a good job in taking care of her and describing everything that was happening.
1	I volunteered as an ambulance worker in a conflict zone several years ago. We had to deal with injuries from bombings in the immediate aftermath and pick up of the people to be transported back to the hospital. I have no medical training, but I learned how deal with traumatic wounds, bleeding, concussions, and how to triage effectively. I also learned how to administer painkillers and tie tourniquets properly.  
-1	I am very sorry but this questions seems repetitive, I already gave an information that I do know how to demonstrate knowledge about health issues, so that in turn would tell you that every time I visit my physician I DEMONSTRATE knowledge always.
-1	it all started in high school  there  were  diffrent courses tooken and it just stuck with me all my life and by seeing what others have gone through .ive done alot reasearching on diffrent topics so i have better understanding about this stuff and had a gpa 4.0 3 years i got that from my mom..plus i know my diagnoses were .lots medical dental.oh heart condction ,athsma ....
1	I had a severe stabbing pain in the lower right side of my abdomen. It was unlike anything I had ever felt before, and left me literally doubled over in pain crying. I had a suspicion it was a kidney problem. I went to urgent care and they said, no it's nothing, just take an antacid. Less than 5 hours later, the pain was completely unbearable and I almost fainted while waiting at the ER. Sure enough, I was about to pass a large kidney stone and had an infection of my kidney as well. I was admitted overnight, given 3 bags of IV antibiotics, and a mild painkiller or antiinflammatory to hold me over while the stone passed.
1	I had a hunch that I was a test subject for a certain rare disease and had to go through a lot of hoops because I couldn't exactly pinpoint what was wrong with me, it included a colonoscopy at age 21 and various other random bullshit since I had no idea what was wrong with me. I learned about various random problems and diseases that may have been unrelated until I eventually dropped everything and continued to live my life as if I didn't have any of those problems. Usually a doctors visit is really simple but I had one that made me rethink my health choices for a couple years in various ways. The disease was called PNH.
-1	I knew that i had something wrong with my uterus so i went to the doctors. They did a hysterectomy because i had a polyp as big as a grapefruit. They did a total hysterectomy because they weren't sure if it was cancerous.
1	I had kidney stones that I needed to pass, and I went to the hospital and told them that that's what I thought was happening. They told me that was not the case and that I had Swollen kidneys and that they need to put an IV in my arm to make them go down. 15 minutes later I started passing kidney stones.
-1	When my friend asked me about the different kinds of birth control . He did not know about the other alternatives besides the pills. I explained what is available and how some of them work . I learned about the different birth controls from experience and larning online and from the doctor 
1	im not sure what to write here because i do not have a time in my life where i demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  
1	reading of a ct scan of my lungs in search of cancers or other abnormalities and having the doctor explain the purpose and function of lymp nodes and what leads to calcification.
1	My doctor felt a lump on my right breast.  I had to get a mammogram, sonogram and have a biopsy. Then I had another mammogram.  I got a call a day later telling me it was benign and nothing to be worried about.  I did research and asked lots of questions to the doctor and nurse.
1	I worked as a health unit coordinator for 25 years up until 2014 when I retired. A main part of my job was to have an extensive knowledge of medical terminology. I have worked in various departments in a large city hospital ranging from telemetry, medical/surgical and maternity.
1	I have had a total thyroidectomy. I have had so many issues with trying to balance my medications. Everything relates to the thyroid. I never would have known all this information without going through this. 
1	I have had parents and siblings in the hospital a few times throughout my life, which has helped me gain experience speaking with doctors and nurses.
1	I was a CNA. I worked in a nursing home for a while. I have experience with my own health issues in the back.
1	thankfully most of my knowledge of medical issues has been fairly innocuous things like how to tell the difference between cold and flu or what foods are best for sinus infections. 
1	Regulating my blood pressure. I purchased a blood pressure monitor to closely track my blood pressure and realized that I probably needed medication to control it.
1	I was able to tell a coworker what condition that they might have. They told me about some symptoms that they were experiencing. I was able to help them reach a diagnosis. 
-1	My brother was once hit by a car when we were biking to school, and the driver got out of the car to help him. I ran to his side, and made sure to tell my brother not to move his head/neck, and told the driver not to move him as well. I knew in doing so, much more damage could be done. 
1	A friend of mine was suffering fro fatigue and a rash on her face I told her some of the signs of lupus and she asked her dr to test her and found out she hadl lupus.
1	I had major heart surgery in 2006 to repair an aortic aneurysm, replace an aortic valve, and install a pacemaker.  Within a month of exiting the hospital, I suffered a DVT and had a bout of ventricular tachycardia.  After 12 years of ongoing monitoring and medication, I have gained a significant knowledge of the state of my own health.  I have also had other surgeries, and currently suffer from an arthritic damaged knee that needs replacement.  At sixty five years old&lt; I guess it is just the cumulative knowledge that a person gains through these experiences which has added to my health knowledge.
1	After much research and review of my symptoms, I was fairly certain that I had multiple sclerosis. Soon after that, I was officially diagnosed with the disease.
1	A few years ago I was experiencing a lot of pain, swelling and redness in one of my legs. I was knowledgeable in symptoms and causes of blood clots and that they can be deadly if not treated immediately. I went to the ER and I was correct that I had a blood clot in my leg.
-1	When I was pregnant and had to get prenatal care to prevent gestational diabetes.  I also I to get prenatal testing to ensure nothing was wrong with the baby.
1	I just had shoulder surgery. I researched recovery periods, alternative treatments and risks of doing nothing. In the end I chose surgery.
1	I once got a fever. I hydrated myself and decided to sleep early. I think that this helped me recover more quickly than if I had stayed awake. I also kept stimuli to a minimum so that migraines wouldn't happen.
1	I really don't have a good example.  I have become knowledgeable with MS because a friend of mine has been diagnosed.  I researched and become more knowledgeable on the subject because I wanted to help her. 
1	I went with my dad to a doctors appointment because he has high cholesterol. The doctor told him that he needed to lower his cholesterol to a certain level. After we left the office my dad looked at the results of his blood work and believed that his number was within the range of what the doctor recommended. I showed him that he was looking at the recommended amount and not the results of his test. His actual cholesterol was way too high. He would not have known that if i did not get with him
1	When I was shopping for food, I used my knowledge of nutritional information to select foods that wouldn't give me too many calories, excessive sugar consumption, etc. 
1	A handful of years ago, I was a bit overweight and decided to shed the excess through monitoring my calorie intake. I intentionally consumed around 400 calories less daily than I was previously taking in and lost the excess weight in a matter of weeks.
1	I started doing a lot of research when I started having children. So I became very aware of different remedies and modes of service out there.
1	I took the test to detect the presence of the prostate cancer antigen knowing the high probability of false positives.  I was prepared to consider not taking further action if the test came back positive unless further symptoms occurred.  The test was negative, so no decision need to be made.
-1	I used to take care of my grandmother. Her mind was starting to go and one day she started having really bad hallucinations and talking nonsense. At first, I thought maybe it was dementia, but then I remembered that strange behavior and hallucinations can often be a symptom of UTIs in the elderly. I called her doctor and was able to get antibiotics. 
1	There are none. You can require a minimum number of character if you want to but that doesn't change the facts. I have never had serious medical problems so my medical knowledge was never put to the test. I don't have any medical knowledge besides common sense in the first place.
1	Several early college classes tested us on human health and medical issues. I also studied psychology as my major, so if mental health counts, I graduated with a 3.5 GPA. I would say that my grade demonstrated an above average knowledge of health and medical issues. 
1	I was able to diagnose the issue when my cousins child was very sick. I was able to tell that she had early stages of typhoid fever and told my cousin to take her to the doctor as soon as possible because of the symptoms and the seriousness of the condition. 
1	My father was a surgeon for decades and I read shelves and shelves of his medical books as a child and teen. In addition I take care to read medical information, good health habits and keep up to date with medical news.
1	After feeling very dizzy for several days I had tests done. My results came back showing nothing wrong. I knew I didnt feel right and while my dr said I was fine I pushed for more from him. 
1	While practicing jujitsu I have helped a fellow practitioner that was injured make a sling and gave advice on heating and icing practices. In most sports I have done I have helped people out when they receive injuries, as I have experienced most of them myself. 
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated that I have knowledge of health or medical issues is when I knew I needed mental health help and sought treatment for myself.
-1	I hurt my lower back quite badly, I knew that heat would relax the muscles to stop my back muscles from spasming so much, but its wouldn't help with the inflammation. So I decided to take ibuprofen for the pain but also because I know its a NSAID.  After the pain became more managable, I switched to acetaminophen since it would be easier on my stomach than ibuprofen. 
1	I listen and learn when I go to the doctor. I read information on the internet and what the doctors give me. 
1	I have taken a few classes on basic health and medicine.  I have regularly gone to the doctor all my life and have done quite a bit of reading on health and healthy activities.  
1	After I went through puberty, I started getting migraines every day. Since then, I have seen more doctors then probably most people will see in their entire lives. Not a single one took my concerns seriously.
1	I had a severe reaction to an antibiotic a few years go.  A few months after it happened, I filled out my paperwork at a specialist's office and marked that I was allergic to the drug.  I realized when they were printing out a prescription for me that it was the same drug I had put I was allergic to and pointed it out.
-1	For years I have had to take regular PSA tests to determine if I was susceptible to prostate cancer. I additon levels that have gone up and down, I had an enlarged prostate which is a problem in itself - it can affect one's lifestyle since going to the bathroom several times a night can lead to tiredness and other problems -  but not necessairly life threatening. My doctor originally put me on a medication that dealt with the problems caused by the enlarged prostate but being uncomfortable with certain medications (this one I would have to take forever), fearful about the cost and after effects, I took myself off after one bottle. To make a long story short, after two bladder stone surgeries, I eventally had TURP surgery to deal with the problems caused by the enlarged prostate and while it was painful, I do not have to take any life long medication to deal with any problems.
-1	When I became very ill and everytime I ate I had pain in my stomach and had bowel problems I had hpylori and i had to go on a strict clean healthy diet no yeast and strong medicine I really  learned about my body and health and how to take care of myself I still struggle with stomach issues but have learn ways to keep myself healthier day by day 
1	When I was due to give birth to my oldest daughter I was given the option of having her turned in-utero because she was breech presentation and I was a week overdue.  Because the Resident that I was dealing with told me there was only a 50% chance that the baby would stay head down until delivery and she had never done this procedure before, I chose to have a C-section the next day.  When my daughter was born, she was quite large and all agreed that my decision was the safest and most appropriate for the circumstances.
-1	I have read about mammograms doing more harm than good. I read about studies and made my own decision not to have one due to the false positives and stress that goes along with it.
1	My grandmother was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and I learned a lot from spending time in the hospital and hospice with her.  I would ask the doctors what things meant in her chart so I had a better understanding of what they were doing,
-1	I was taken to the hospital not too long ago because I was having abdominal pain. The pain was so bad that I had actually fainted. The doctor discussed all the different reasons that I might be experiencing the pain.
1	When I had to talk to my mom about a rare lung disease she has. She doesn't know much about it and wasn't sure that she was getting the right treatment. I had to research it more, which I could do because I could understand what I was reading.
1	When my spouse got the flu, i knew that it would be mainly because my spouse didn't get the flu vaccine. By God's Grace my spouse got healed from the flu. I had some knowledge about the issues and symptoms that my spouse was dealing with and I was able to help at the right time.
-1	My daughter was sick. She was coughing and sneezing and had a temperature of 102.4. Even though she had a cough and sneezing, she was behaving normally. I gave her medicine to reduce the temperature. Later on she started to act very tired. I called the doctor and they said that she was probably fine and wanted us to come in the next day. Then she started to vomit. I took her to the hospital because of her symptoms and she had a stomach viris. i felt that something was wrong with her and i did not want to wait until the next day.
-1	When  I was experiencing pain in my jaw I instantly knew that it was an infection in my gums rather than the molar itself. I began to search for treatments and cleaned in between my gums and found a chunk of food that was causing the infection. I then cleaned my mouth with an antisceptic solution and the inflation went away in about a week.
1	I have been a type 1 diabetic since the age of 23. This has required knowledge of a number of different body systems and medical specialties, to maximize my overall health state.
1	The flu hit my family last week.  We had our flu shots so our fevers weren't extremely high (less than 101).  The accompanying symptoms were severe fatigue, cough, nausea and an extreme sore throat.  I was concerned because in the past my children have had atypical symptoms for strep throat (pain, nausea but no fever). However, I knew that a cough wasn't typical either.  I watched my son's throat for a few days and there weren't any unusual signs until last Thursday night when white spots started showing up.  At that point, my usual wait and see on a fever and cough symptoms turned into a doctor's appointment.  I've learned to wait out viruses but not to mess with what could be a possible strep.  Thankfully it wasn't strep but I knew what to look for and be concerned from past experience.  
1	I once treated myself for a sexually transmitted disease by ordering antibiotics I had looked up (by affect to body region). I found ciproflaxin for my bladder and urinary tract, and I found doxycycline for my STD health. After looking up how long a trial is of each, I was able to complete two weeks of dosing both. I then paid for a std test at my University Health Center and I tested negative twice, to which I was very happy. In my opinion you don't need a doctor, it's just 99% of people (including myself) will never share the same knowledge as one and medicine in it's concentrated forms can be very hard to dose and apply to select cases. I am glad doctors are around, as anything more complicated than the pills would be beyond me.
1	My son had a sinus infection as a child and was having trouble breathing and my wife and i weren't sure what to do.  I turned on the shower, brought him into the bathroom and shut the door.  The steam helped clear his sinuses so he could finally go to sleep.  My wife was happy. 
-1	My experience of knowledge about medical issues is related to a heart condition I have. I am knowledgeable in general about it and about the medication I take for it. I know what the medication is supposed to do and what effects it has on my body.
-1	Honestly I probably get the most knowledge from watching documentaries on health and medical issues. Also two of my siblings are nurses and another one is in nursing school, so I never here the end of medical issues.
1	I don't have much knowledge of health or medical issues, but I'm confident in my ability to figure out what I need to know when I need to know it, so I never worry about trying to figure medical stuff out ahead of time.
1	When my grandma had the symptoms of a stroke, I had to assess her and evaluate what was going on. I took her blood pressure, evaluated her speech, had to get her in a safe position, took her pulse, and called and explained to 911 and the EMTs. I had to explain everything to the nurses and doctors and my family at the hospital because she was unable to speak. I had to explain everything to several doctors as she was kept in the hospital for testing.  This also included knowing all her medications, dosages, times, routes. With the help of my descriptions, the doctors were able to correctly diagnose her with a likely causes. It was not a stroke, it was toxic encephelopathy.
1	I have virtually no knowledge of health or medical issues.  I once learned, in a community college course, how to do the Heimlich maneuver. I've never had any opportunity or reason to use it outside of that one instance though. 
1	"I am a mom of 7 children, so I often have to make late night ""diagnoses"" using the internet as my source. Recently one of my children had a sore throat. I googled it and found images. I looked in her throat and determined that it was strep throat by the white spots on the back of her throat. The next day I took her to the doctor, and it was diagnosed as strep throat. "
1	I have had eczema since I was a teenager, and I know that when I have a breakout that I can't control at home that the best thing for me is oral steroids. I have had doctors that have wanted to prescribe something else, but I usually insist that they give me the oral steroid.
1	All of my knowledge is done through the internet. With how the internet is today you can search anything and many accredicted doctors will have information on what these symptoms can mean. People can also post on forums who have had the same issues and they openly discuss them for the world to see and learn from.
-1	2 years ago i recieved my first mammogram.a couple days later they contacted me and i had to go in for another more intense one and also a sonagram. i was very upset of course until i read up on the subject and realized that it happened often to people the first time they get one.
1	I'm a personal trainer.  I train people daily on good health.  For example, i had a client today that was wondering about a diet.  I helped her get back on track by going over her intake 
1	well, I think this survey very much demonstrates my lack of health knowledge.  I can't figure the majority of these what % of people got false positives.  I just don't know.  I don't know that it really matters to me, the statistics of it all.
1	I tested positive for the hepatitis B antigen, so I was disqualified from giving blood. However, I know I did not contract hepatitis b, so I know it was a false positive, which can happen all the time with tests like that.
1	When I had my baby he had to stay in the NICU for 2 days. At first, I didn't understand exactly why, as it could have been a few reasons. It could have been because he had pooped before he was born so there was poop when my water broke. It could have been because I tested positive for Strep B. And it could have been because I had a fever during labor. I later figured out it was because of my fever.
1	I suffer from chronic migraines. I often found a significant tension in my neck when these headaches would occur. I suggested to my PCP that I might benefit from seeing a massage therapist. He agreed and we found the massage therapy would help alleviate the headaches some. 
1	I suffer from RSD and it originally started in my left arm and hand after surgery to repair a broken wrist.  Within 4 months of developing RSD in my arm my left leg started to swell and turn red and blotchy which is a indication of RSD.  My leg was also cold to the touch and very painful when touched which is a definite sign of RSD.  When I saw my pain specialist and he looked he would not believe that it was RSD because he did not believe it traveled, however after finding a newer board certified doctor in pain management he did diagnose this as the RSD traveling and also said it was not in the stage known as CRPS.  I trust my instincts and what my body tells me even if doctors may not agree. 
1	I was put on a new medication. When I picked it up I read the information sheet on it. I had some odd symptoms. I recocgnized them as side effects from te information sheet.
1	A time when I felt I had medical knowledge was when my child was very young. Her doctor told me that she had nothing wrong with her. I suspected she had a milk allergy and acid reflux. I took her to a different doctor and they confirmed my diagnosis.
-1	I had to go in for surgery to have a ganglion cyst removed from my wrist,I had knowledge of this cyst type for many years because several family members have had this type of cyst.
1	I am a type one diabetic on an insulin pump and medication to lower my cholesterol. I go to my doctor once every three months for check ups  
1	I look up the side effects to my own medications to ensure that I am not having any symptoms that could result in me having serious complications in the future. A lot of major issues with medication start as minor ones.I saved my own life about a year ago knowing these signs. If I had waited any longer to go, or did not notice the symptoms, I would have died. 
1	My daughter fell off of a scooter and cut her leg open. There was a lot of blood pouring out onto the concrete. I knew that I needed to apply pressure to get the bleeding to stop and get her to immediate care as quickly as possible. She got 5 stitches in her knee. 
1	I started to be plagued by weakness, tiredness and shakiness, I noticed that the ends of my fingers were slightly blue/purple and remembered that that usually indicates iron deficiency, I started eating more iron rich foods and my symptoms went away in a few days.
-1	My leg was going numb and tingling. I looked at several websites for information, while waiting for an appointment. Turned out to be my sciatic nerve. It was remedied by keeping my wallet in my front pocket instead of sitting on it. 
1	I worked at a retail store. Customers would come in and ask me for advice about what medicines to take since I worked around the over the counter medicine section. I was able to recognize the problems they talked about and was able to successfully recommend medicines or supplements.
1	I had a sore throat for a few days. Then I looked at my throat and saw white dots and realized I had strep. I knew I had to go to the doctor.
1	Several months ago, I woke up with a Soren throat.  My glands were swollen, and when I looked in my mouth, I could see the tell tale signs of strep throats in the back of my mouth.  When I went to the doctor, he confirmed what I already knew - strep.
1	I have always believed to have reactive hypoglycemia. Doctors always told me I have low blood sugar but not as bad. Yet I lived with the risks and symptoms all my life. Finally 3 months ago after having a bad symptom, I found a doctor willing to do all the tests possible (unfortunate for me financially). He finally confirmed I have reactive hypoglycemia. And a lot of other health concern no other doctor informed me about before.
1	There is not many experience where I had to deal with knowledge of health or medical issues. At times I have to read nutrition labels, or sometimes in college classes I must execute hypothesis testing where the scenario is often a new drug attempting to fall below the 0.05 p-value threshold
1	I don't have any specific examples, any knowledge I have about issues are ones that I relied on the medical community for, I don't spend any time on these things because I don't want to think about the negatives.
1	My mother is a CNA and I have helped her study for her exams. I learned a lot from reading her books and helping her practice. 
1	I was diagnosed with B12 deficiency. I know that my grandmother had pernicious anemia. I assumed that I had inherited the gene that causes this from her and I was correct. I have pernicious anemia.
1	I attended a number of medical appointments with my father during the process of his diagnosis with Parkinson's disease, and became comfortable advocating for his care.
1	I got tested for a couple of things some weeks ago. I knew all the procedures that needed to be taken and I did them myself. I also stayed calm knowing nothing was wrong
1	Other than high school biology presentations, I have had to switch doctors and apply/appeal for disability and unemployment several times over the last 2 years. I successfully talked about my condition to Social Security and was awarded benefits. Also everytime I've switched doctors, I didn't have transferable records so I have to to recount details of my diagnosis. 
1	My mother had lung cancer and eventually was diagnosed with diabetes due to chemo and eat habits. My mother was not used to her new diagnosis so her sugar levels were up and down. From what I learned in school I was able to help her with trying to get it under control. 
1	I was concerned about some pain my child was experiencing. He was running a fever and generally irritable. He has recently had a cold and I suspected it might be an ear infection because of the constant fussiness. It turned out I was correct and he had a bad ear infection.
-1	When I graduated from college I was hired by a pharmaceutical company that was inovative in heart medicines. I was educated extensively in this field.
1	I've had health issues in my life and my family has also had health issues. I've learned most of my knowledge through having different experiences while going through medical things myself or with another person.
1	A friend had pain in her calf and thought she had a blood clot in her leg. It wasn't red or swollen, didn't feel hot to the touch. I told her I didn't think it was a clot. She went to the doctor and it wasn't.
1	Any time I try to explain neurological disorders, every face goes blank. I try to break it down even further and make it more simplified, but it seems as though thinking on that scale of body processes is something most people I've come across just can't grasp. Most do not understand the ties between injury, fever, swelling, neuron misfires, cerebro-spinal fluid, etcetera. I have to know theses things due to personal medical history..
1	I was sick, and I knew I was sick. I didnt have the ability to go to the doctor right away, but knew that I needed to because my illness wouldnt go away. I believed I had a bacterial infection. When i finally got to the doctor a couple weeks later, he said I had a bacterial infection and gave me the medicine to clear it up.
-1	Due to previous health issues I was able to tell a doctor exactly what was wrong with me (type of infection) and it ended up being exactly that.
-1	I have had issues with high blood pressure, weight gain, bone issues,lower back pain,and hernia. All I try to do is eat right which is hard to do.Exercise consistently is my goal. I work a lot and find it hard to squeeze in the time. 
1	Lately, my lack of fertility...I have had to change my diet, start prenatals, stop hormones and my body has changed. 
1	There's no particular experience but there's been numerous circumstances in my kid's lives when they were either sick or injured wherein my knowledge of health or medical issues have helped me treat them without going to the doctor.
1	My partner's dog tore her dewclaw and it needed to be bandaged while it healed.  After some time of bandaging, it still wasn't healing very well.  I suggested it might not be healing because it was constantly wrapped up so couldn't heal properly.  My partner called the vet and they said the same thing to her.
-1	i feel like i have some good knowledge about health issues . It makes me feel like i am analyzing some data. And at the same time it makes me a little worried 
1	I assisted a relative in treated a flu, cough, cold by speaking to a doctor, reading online material regarding that diagnosis and preparing food for them to heal faster.
1	I have a degree from a culinary school and have also taken several courses on my way to becoming a nutritionist. My stepfather has gout and it bothers him regularly. My mother asked me to design him a meal plan because he does not eat as he is told and as such gout is an issue he deals with regularly. I worked with him and, based upon my knowledge of how to eat with and treat gout, designed a meal plan with food that he likes and was agreeable to eating. This made a noticable difference in his gout symptoms and issues.
1	A coworker was injured on the job. I have first aid training, I was able to assist them with their wound until medical personal arrived.
1	Probably the area where I know the most about medical issues is in terms of sexual activity. In college, I had to write a couple papers about the issue of sexual education, so I did plenty of research on the subject of STDs or teenage pregnancy. This is probably where I gained a lot of knowledge of health.
-1	I developed a blood clot in my twenties. When I walked into the ER I explained that I had a DVT due to the birth control pills I was taking. I had read the insert and I was correct.  
-1	I have had a problem with weight gain since my 2 pregnancies. I am aware that I have higher weight, higher cholesterol, and higher blood pressure as a result of this weight gain. I am aware of 2 main causes - 1) unhealthy eating 2) not having time to exercise. Because I am aware of the risks, I decided to try to eat healthier and exercise more.
1	My dad had a massive stroke 10 years ago and my mom and sister were in complete denial about what was happening.  They wanted me to help get my dad to his feet because they thought if he started walking he would be ok.  I recognized immediately what was happening and called 911. My dad lived but he was never the same again.  His doctor showed us a brain scan that showed only a quarter size area of damage in his right brain.  It's scary that a quarter size area of damage could change someone's entire personality.
1	I went to the hospital complaining about light headiness.  The doctor told me that I had Hypertension.  He told me to diet and exercise before he considered prescribing me medication.  Ultimately my blood pressure returned to normal after following a stricter diet with exercise.
1	The last time I went to the doctor, I had strep throat. I was being checked up on and I needed to fill out paperwork at the beginning of my visit detailing some of my medical history and needs. This went smoothly.
-1	I work in a specialized and private hand clinic. Sometimes when patients come up to the window complaining of hand pain and such, I can instantly diagnose their disease. Of course, I don't have the license to clearly diagnose them and give them medical advice without an official diagnosis so I wait until the doctor can.
1	In general, I would just mention that I help certain family members with their own medical and health needs. This could include doctor visits, completing paperwork, understanding how to take medication, etc.
1	A couple years ago I was discharged from the ER suffering from abdominal pain, and other weird symptoms like high blood pressure, and no insight really given as to what was causing this given by doctors. On my own, I was able to figure out that diverticular disease was leading me to experience eventual high blood pressure, and that it got worse the more that I ate, so I could avoid this by fasting when I began to have these kinds of symptoms. That's more than the doctors figured out, maybe I should be a doctor.
1	I have taken many courses on biology and health in general. I think that I know a decent amount about health care.
1	Over the past two years I have had two major broken bones through falls. In those experiences, my knowledge of health and medical issues, specifically related to bone and muscle healing and development, but also on a larger scale, have increased a great deal. 
1	One thing that comes to mind is the fact that I show up each year for an annual physical.  While this seems like a small thing to many, people who think they are healthy should be getting annual checkups because you really can't always tell.  Even if you work out religiously and eat an extremely healthy diet, it's still vitally important to check in and make sure everything is actually okay inside of you.
1	I have to go back to my osteogenesis imperfecta again as having lived with it for over 60 years now, it is what I know best about my own body.   It takes very little for me to fracture. At times I get what are called spontaneous fractures.   Medical professionals who are not particularly familiar with OI can't believe how little it takes for me to get a fracture nor do radiologist always understand that what I often get are tiny hairline fractures which are hard to see.  Thus I can be diagnosed as not having a fracture when I actually do.  I have to know enough to listen to my own body in those cases.
1	I don't know if it's really knowledge, because I did have to research to be sure and still go to the doctor for verification and treatment, but a few months after my daughter's birth I started having breast pain and woke up one night with terrible chills and fever. I thought it might be mastitis (I was breastfeeding) and after some reading online, found the symptoms sounded right. I went to urgent care, confirmed my suspicions, and got some antibiotics.
1	Taking a course during college for food safety and illness prevention. We took numerous tests, courses and had information about the illnesses people can get from raw food, improper food handling and cross contamination. I am also knowledgeable out items that carry common bacteria from food and food items, since it was meant to keep the workplace, work areas and preparation clean to prevent any issue that may occur during cooking and serving guests.
1	I am a testicular cancer survivor of 15 years. I had to make a choice between surveillance, chemotherapy, and adjuvant surgery (after initial tumor removal). I had and have access to a myriad of professional medical peer-reviewed publications that enabled me to make an informed decision with the advice of my doctor. I did the chemotherapy and got my butt kicked. 
1	"I had to act as my mother's health care POA while she had dementia.  In this capacity, I requested that her doctor issue a ""Do Not Resusitate Order."""
-1	my experience in life the demonstrated my knowledge of heath or medical issue is i have always  been able to live a very healthy life i have avoided  any serious illness my whole life and i have never had to go to the hospital for any length of time. i feel that show a good knowledge of health issues .
1	I had a skin cancer scare a few years ago and met with quite a few medical professionals to see what procedures were necessary and what were elective. I had to do a lot of research on my own to ensure I was receiving the accurate information from the doctors. I needed to be my own patient advocate.
1	I was feeling very sick for a few days straight. I knew that it was very likely strep throat but other people kept telling me it was the flu. I read up some more online and finally went to the doctor. He did a strep test and was able to confirm that I did have strep. 
1	A couple years back I went to the dermatologist, but prior to that I did a lot of background search on what derms do and what they can provide for a patient. I already got a good understanding what they would prescribe me and therefore I knew how to take the prescriptions and what some of the side effects were going to be. I did end up getting what I thought I would so it really helped me out.
1	A year ago I had a false positive mammogram and had to go through so many test including a biopsy to get the final results.
1	I usually research in internet when I find a health problem. After that I go to the doctor's office. Most of the times my research has given the correct result.
1	I am in the middle of a survey with a few questions that test this very thing.  I think I did pretty well on these questions and that demonstrates my knowledge of these issues.
1	When my girlfriend got a similar stomach virus to one i had in the past. i knew the best immediate treatment for her and she got over her virus
-1	My son was diagnosed with fever seizures. I understood that when he had a fever that I had to watch out for this to happen. I was told that I needed to treat any illness where he could get a fever aggressively. If he starts to feel warm or shows signs of his temperature rising he will get meds to have reduce that so it doesn't happen.  
-1	My experience in life would be that I was  a trained combat medic in the US Army, which in turn qualified me to be a paramedic in the civilian world if I chose to take the state liscensing test.
-1	Last year, I had a bout of diverticulitis. I had never suffered with it before, but I knew there was a possibility that it may show up. So I read on line, everything about the stomach, and knew that was it.
-1	I don't have an experience that demonstrated my knowledge on health or medical issues. I am always reliant on a medical official (doctor or nurse) to help me understand what is wrong. Short of colds, cuts and scraps I am not a professional and don't expect to understand what they know. I can tell the difference between a sprain or pulled muscle and something much worse but past that i do not have much experience.
1	My boyfriend was concerned about some sleep issues.  I gave him some advice about getting more sleep, staying away from computers and finding a different hobby other than playing on his phone.  Yesterday at an appointment with his doctor, the doctor gave him the exact same advice and in fact said, your girlfriend was right. 
-1	i went to get my eyes checked and i stated that the white stuff in my eye was drusen. The doctor was astounded that i knew what the term drusen met.
1	I think my level of experience is pretty common for a regular person. I think i learn more every time i go to the hospital, i get sick or anybody in my close circle gets sick. I also enjoy watching different tv programs that teach you more about how to take care of yourself. I also read a lot of articles online about healthy lifestyle. I took few classes about healthy cooking and nutrition   
-1	As I had said or described previously, through my experience I have been able to learn only the basics for medical cases. For example, a while ago I had some problems with my heart. These problems made me understand that I should drink a lot of water, always avoid strong emotions or dislikes. I understood that I could feel thanks to the problem in the heart dizziness and desire to vomit
1	I have a daughter and she developed a skin rash on her legs.  I took her to dermatologist and the dermatoglist said that she had allergies and prescriped a wide variety of medicines for treatment.  But I did research on the diagnosis and my daughter's problem simply didn't appear to be what was described online.  As a result, I took her to a regular doctor who diagnosed her differently and we used the medicine prescribed and the problem cleared up within a week.
-1	Hereditary issues arise in my family ranging from heart disease to thyroid. The thyroid issue can be affected at any age but the heart issues are later like menopause age, so i know what i can and can not help or try to minimize at best.
1	I learned first-hand about the side effects of cancer treatment (chemo, radiation, surgery).  I learned about the various treatments (CT scan, Pet Scan, external and internal radiation, surgery, transfusions, chemo).
1	Probably when my step dad was complaining about a growth on his face. I have run across information in the past about skin cancer and immediately told him he should get that checked out. He went a couple months later and it turned out that I was in fact right, he was diagnosed with cancer. Thankfully, they were able to cut it out of his face and now he doesn't have it anymore. 
-1	I know how to use cough syrup. I undo the plastic, screw off the cap, remove the plastic guard, and pour it into a cup. 
-1	When I was went to the doctor and found out that my cancer came back, I was already familiar with what medicines I needed to take and was knowledgeable about my options 
-1	My son was born with bilateral megaureters resulting in reflux of urine and destruction of 1 kidney before birth. My knowledge saved him from needing a transplant when his good ureter started showing signs of failing. I refusted to allow the other ureter to be removed in case he needed it later and he did.
1	When giving my kids medicine i have to read the label to find the correct dosage and then measure out the correct amount before giving it to them.
1	I have lived with and taken care of a terminally ill parent for years. It was a struggle to keep everything going. It felt like any small slip up could mean she could die. So I was vigilant in everything that was happening to her
1	I often have to help my mother with medical paperwork, medication, etc. Overall, I don't have a need to interpret a large amount of information. 
-1	i have studied some medicine. i also have had many family members with different health conditions so i like to study up on as many conditions as possible to stay ahead of any symptoms
1	I had a lump in thigh and looked up information on the lump and found a picture of it on the Internet. The lump is a lipoma (or fatty tissue that grows after an injury).  I got lucky and was correct.  The doctor told me what I had.
-1	I had an issue with my arm feeling numb and could not use it for a few days. I went to the doctor thinking that is could have been a stroke. They ran tests and put my arm in a sling. I had read up on strokes and saw news stories online regarding strokes. 
1	I had been put on a new medicine by a new doctor that I didn't really think I needed to be taking from what I had read. She was a very new doctor and I wasn't sure she really knew what to do. The next year when I went for my annual checkup, I saw an older doctor that had been practicing for years and he immediately said that there was no reason that I should be taking that medicine and I should stop. He tried to explain to me the reasoning thinking that I would be against stopping but I told him that I had thought the exact same thing.
-1	My mom has lots of health issues. I have worked in a couple offices that dealt with the same problems she has so I am able to help my mom understand better what her doctors telling her. When she does not completely understand or even believe what the doctors are saying are correct she can call me and I can tell her if Ive ever dealt with that before. Even though I do not have a lot of knowlegde about medical conditions I seem to know more then a lot of friends and family do. Also, as I'm sure most people use Google to search medical terms or symptoms. I search google for everything so that helps me help others and myself undersand medical stuff. I do know most doctors hate for their patients to search google for medical conditions. With that said most all medical conditions have the same symptoms as other conditions so we should  only take what we find on google or even hear from friends and family very lightly and make sure to always speak with a doctor. 
-1	During a recent visit, I was able to inform my doctor of a unbeknownst-to-her documented side-effect relating to wellbutrin.
1	I took a course on environmental toxicology. I also work as a lab chemist for a water-testing company and need to know how ingested chemicals can affect the body.
1	I have explained to people what I do and use when I am not feeling healthy and or have a toothache, headache or other similar things. Other then that I don't go around demonstrating my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	My knowledge of health and medical issues are when I had my daughter.  When I had her it was an emergency c section.  I had a condition called HELLP.  I didnt at the time know what that was until that day. I had extremely high BP.  I had to have blood transfusions and platelets.  I had to make sure from that point on I watched my intake of fatty foods so my liver would not be affected.  I have learned what fatty liver really is.  My dr test my blood now to make sure my liver is in the normal levels.  
1	I have given advice to a lot of friends who have mental illnesses since I suffer from depression and anxiety disorder.  I have also researched my parents medical issues and helped educate them or clear up any confusion they have about their conditions or the medication they are taking.  Having to have surgery 4 times also helped me learn a great deal and help others deal with the same medical issue that I have.
1	I was able to research my symptoms and have an idea of what questions to act the doctor when I went for my appointment.
1	My tenant informed me he was experiencing chest pains.  I called 911 and had him rest.  I checked his pulse to make sure it was strong.  When the fire department arrived, I made sure that they had his medications to take to the hospital with him.
1	Anytime I went to the doctor with my father.  I made sure to prepare myself by reading background material and understanding his history so I could walk into the office and make it clear to the doctor that I knew what I was talking about.
-1	Eating right is the key to good health. It's not a apple a day keeps the doctor away. It's eat plenty of fruits and vegetables and reduce your meat intake and exercise keeps you away from the doctors. 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when someone claimed to have had the flu. I asked them what their symptoms were and based upon their answers, I concluded that they had a mere cold instead of the flu
1	I was able to get myself from 168 pounds as an adult to 215 pounds through diet and exercise. I was able to maintain a healthy blood pressure by monitoring my sodium intake. I was able to gain muscle by adjusting my caloric intake slowly so as not to gain fat while gaining muscle. Also dropped my LDL and raised my HDL through diet and exercise while gaining muscle through increasing protein and reducing carbohydrates. 
1	I think that the most beneficial experience that I have come across would be just learning how to read nutrition labels, and figure out what my daily intake should be. This has allowed me to learn how to control my weight. 
-1	I mean just talking to my doctor or reddit i guess. I never took classes and i know i didn't do that good. I think i'm a good example of a average joe.
1	Whenever i have issues with my health, i will often do my own research prior to seeking medical advice. Most of the time, if you look into certain things from reliable sources, you can find that most common health related issues can be alleviated on your own without an external help. 
-1	When I was diagnosed with Ulcerative Colitis I was not given much instruction on how to deal with it on a daily basis other than to take drugs that had terrible side effects. I began to take the blood test and scopy tests results and learn what each thing meant. I went and got a blood review done and was able to see my cells and learn what the shape and distribution of my cells in the vial mean. I started to change my diet drastically and began taking natural substances such as aloe and ginger to reduce inflammation. Now I have problems still but I can better balance with the chart information and finding resources online I can go to the health store and try and help myself naturally.
1	I was primary caregiver for my parents for 10 years before their deaths.  We were constantly at Doctors and hospitals with Alzheimers, MS, Parkinsons, Heart disease, Diabetes, etc.  
1	I was once out camping in the wilderness with some friends and had been drinking quite a lot. We were cutting up firewood with a saw when my friend sliced his leg open pretty bad. Knowing the alcohol had thinned his blood and the size of the wound we immediately started with first aid of a tourniquet using one of our belts. Foolishly we had no real supplies for cleaning the wound besides vodka, which I knew was better than nothing. After cleaning the wound up it was clear this would not stop bleeding without some sort of suture. We decided to use a cotton strip of shirt over the cut and some duct tape to seal it shut. This held up well until we were able to make it to the hospital for some stitches. 
-1	In all honesty, I can't describe such an experience, because I DON'T have a great knowledge of health or medical issues.  I'm not a doctor, or even a med student. The only account I can give you is when I broke two of my fingers at work (due to a rolling machine accident).  The doctor said that he'd have to burn a hole through one of my fingernails.  I immediately understood why... it's a common practice to prevent clotting and swelling of that area. Sorry folks, that's it.  That's all I can think of.
1	I was able to significantly lower my blood pressure by changing my diet to mostly vegetables and fruits. As well as avoiding red meat.
-1	My wife likes to claim that she has cancer every time she feels sick. I keep telling her that she has 0 signs of having cancer, and that she just worries way too much about it. 
1	Both of my parents have had serious health issues. I have been to many doctors appointments, and I have met with many of their surgeons over the years. I have listed to and understood what we being explained to me.
1	An experience that has demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is when I researched foods online, such as which vegetable are in the dirty dozen each year (have the most pesticide danger), so I know which vegetables should always be bought organic and which not so much.
1	A few years back, I fell hopelessly dizzy and could not stand upright for a few days. The spinning was also came with a loud ringing in my left ear which also left me partially deaf. After doing some research online, I came to discover that the ringing in my ears was called tinnitus and that there are stones in my ears that are responsible for equilibrium that I must have knocked out of whack.
1	When my mother in law (age 99, had a heart attack 20 years prior) complained of a sore shoulder and nausea, and her feet turned blue, I suspected that she was having a heart attack. It turned out that I was correct - she had a massive coronary and went into full arrest. 
1	The most relevant evidence that I have experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues is not only my many years of taking care of my personal health matters through the health system, but also my having successfully graduating with my Emergency Medical Technician certificate.  I have also interned in an emergency room for some time and have two years of premed education in college.  
1	I think that the fact that I always stay on top of my health and I continue to read about health in general helps me in a positive way. I try to be in control of any symptoms I might have and to research things as much as possible so that I remain healthy. 
1	I do not have a relevant experience that has occurred during my life that would demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I have had a gastric bypass with many complications.  I have had surgery, multiple procedures, medications and lifestyle changes.  Using all of these, and the information I have been given, I am able to manage these problems.
1	When I went to see my most recent psychiatrist, I not only described my symptoms to her but also told her the kind of medications that I wanted to take. I had already studied a lot about my potential illnesses and what would be most helpful, and she prescribed everything I requested. I was at my most stable point after that, all because I gave my own input and knowledge about what was right for me.
1	My mother-in-law was running a fever of 104 and I noticed she wasn't very coherent so made sure she went to the ER as soon as possible. I made sure someone stayed with her at all times since she was not 100% coherent.
1	I took my godmother to the emergency room for a mild chest pain, which was her compliant at the time. After reading the emergency test results and medicines prescribed, I was able to understand what her underlying medical issues are, which was proved right when we later visited her regular doctor as she explained everything to us. 
-1	A time where I was presented with the knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was at the clinic with my doctor who explained to me the problems that I had with my health.
-1	I try to exercise, walk and eat healthy. I try to make foods that are good for me.  I try to take to my doctor about all the things I can do to make my life easier and healthy so I can live a long time
1	"My sister was having severe pain in her lower leg, for no apparent reason. She was a smoker at the time. I suggested she go to the ER because it could be serious. She declined, because it was ""just leg pain."" She was in ICE 2 days later for a pulmonary embolism. The leg pain had been a blood clot. It broke free and went to her lungs. It could have killed her. Had she gone in when I suggested, things would have been much better for her ."
-1	I am an ultrasound tech for my profession.  I had a pt that had experienced sudden weight loss, new onset diabetic and several other symptoms that were side effects of pancreatic cancer.  I scanned her pancreas and found a mass in the head.  I took the information to the radiologist and he did not agree.  I went above him and took the info to the physician and he tested specifically for it and foudn it to be positive for panc ca
1	When I was in the jungle in Thailand with three other people, we spent several nights with tribal people.  On the first night, the woman whose hut we were staying in had a very badly broken arm.  She had broken it a couple of days earlier.  Pierre and I talked about it and agreed to clean it up and set it together, knowing that she would probably get gangrene and die if something wasn't done.  
-1	Most employers are concerned about worker safety since injuries or other workplace incidents can impact productivity, morale, and insurance rates, while also leaving the organization
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when my daughter got sick. I took her temperature and gave her cold press to relieve her pain. I also gave her probiotics and other good food to make her feel better.
1	I am familiar with the symptoms and numerical glucose values of diabetic persons who are beginning to have an insulin reaction so I was able to tell when a young boy I knew was in this situation though no one else around him was aware of it. This allowed me to react quickly, grab his blood sugar test kit and test his blood to see if the situation was an emergency.
-1	I don't really have experience except from reading online and luckily I've only had two medical issues, both having to do with my kidneys. I've learned from the doctors and WebMD about supplements and dietary adjustments that would decrease my risk of kidney stones. Otherwise, I really do not have much knowledge on medical issues.
1	When my grandmother was sick, I was two years removed from college and working in a lab.   This made is much easier to help her and my father when going over options for medical decisions
-1	I had my appendix taken out a few years ago. I had a lot of paperwork and discussions with my doctor and the surgeon.
1	I had a baby two years ago by c-section.  I was able to understand the explanations of why this was medically necessary and agree to it. I also was discharged with material that contained instructions about caring for myself and my son post-partum, and I had no trouble understanding the material I was given.
1	I used to be a certified nurses assistant at a past job over 20 years ago. Therefore, I received lots of knowledge while I was working with Licences Practical Nurses's and Registered Nurse's and taking care of geriatric patients on a daily basis at my past job. 
1	I'm not really sure, probably when I got tested for thyroid problems because I did a bunch of research beforehand. It turned out that I did not have any abnormal thyroid condition.
1	I can't think of a specific acute experience but my mother taught me how to read a nutrition label, count calories, and assess whether said calories are empty or nutritional. I could just do better at following that info. 
-1	I needed to get a blood transfusion for and ulcer. I wasn't sure how bad it was but relied on my knowledge and common sense to get myself taken care of.
-1	I went to the doctor and thought I had a UTI. The doctor confirmed this and said I should be a doctor. I knew the symptoms and that there was a chance of this or another diagnosis. 
-1	I had found a lump in my breast and had to take the steps to have testing done.  I first went to my obgyn who then referred me to a radiologist to have a mammamogram done.
-1	I suffer from asthma ... Mainly when I was younger. I had bad asthma attacks, where I couldn't breathe and I'd then blue in the face. Since then I've really been on top of my health and ways to keep my asthma dormant.
-1	I STILL HAVE MY PROBLEM IN WHICH MY DOCTOR SUGGESTED TO DROPS BUT I REFUSE TO DO SO .FINALLY THE  CONSUME TABLETS AND  I REFUSE TO DO SO FINALLY HE CAME TO BE SO I ACCEPTED TO DO SO. 
1	Most of my knowledge comes from having a B.S. in Biology, in addition to having a desire to continue with my education after I graduated. So I also regularly read books about Science and Math as much as I can. 
1	I noticed spotting after menopause and knew that it could be serious so I went in for a check-up.  I did have an issue and it was caught in time.
-1	When I was given my lab results while in the Drs office I asked them before I looked at my copies if everything looked good and the nurse said yes everything is perfect so I looked over the reference ranges on all tests done. I found 3 blood tests that were flagged as abnormal and one was really low compared to what the reference range showed for Vitamin D and I was very deficient on paper. I told the DR my findings and he said ohhh just go out in the sun more. Well I talked to a nurse practitioner about it on a follow up appt and she put me on Vitamin D3 supplements for 3 months and I really felt so much better after my level was up. 
1	I eat fruit and vegitables all the time. Because of this I never get sick it seems. I think washing my hands helps too.
-1	When I was in school, I got sick sometimes, and would have to see the doctor. I also had to do a lot of problems like this in school.
1	The only experience I have is my own when I've gone to the doctor or read about certain things.  Other than that I have no experiences that would demonstrate my knowledge.
1	My first child was born premature. He was in the NICU for a month. During that time I learned, mostly through repeated exposure, how to read a lot of what was going on around me. For instance, I could tell if a baby nearby was have real bradycardia vs. a false brady by the sounds the alarms made.
1	I had an unusual mole on my shoulder.  It was the same color as my skin but was an unusual shape and just looked very odd.  I researched skin cancer.  I went to a dermatologist and hew was able to test it.  It was cancerous and I had it removed.  
1	I suspected that my son had autism at a very young age. When I took him to the pediatrician, he did not think that my son had autism and did not feel it was necessary to refer him for testing. I persisted and was able to get my son tested. My son was officially diagnosed with autism at the surprise of the pediatrician.
-1	My husband recently had an episode of CHF.  He's had heart disease for years.  The day he could no longer walk from one end of the house to the other, I knew he could no longer put off going to the hospital.
-1	When my mother started experiencing tension types of headaches, I suggest she try to work to loosen the muscles in her neck and shoulders to prevent these headaches. She began stretching each morning and the headaches stopped.
-1	I was certified for CPR a while ago.  I never actually had to use it but I was in a situation where I I was able to assist someone performing it and help remind them of the proper steps, etc to keep them confident.
1	I have made sure that my kids have all their vaccinations because I know that the chance of serious vaccination side effects is much smaller than the chance of getting a dangerous disease if you're not vaccinated.
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was when I took a pre test in my health class in high school. I did well. I like studying health for fun.
1	I was a pharmacy tech student for over a year. We had tests on the subject and I did well, especially in medical terminology. I have been telling doctors for nine years about chronic back pain, and kept getting sent to do physical therapy which wasn't helping, they tell me I need to exercise and lose some weight but I actually have arthritis and 2 herniated discs shown by an MRI I finally talked someone into doing last year.
1	I have Multiple Sclerosis. One symptom I used to suffer from is extensive pain and numbness in my arms overnight. After extensive research I concluded that water fasting would help improve my condition. After 14 days of water fasting the symptom among many others has vanished.
1	Twelve years ago I was diagnosed with presumed ocular histoplasmosis. It was an emergency situation that I had to make a decision regarding my eyes by putting trust in the doctors. I asked my personal eye doctor a lot of questions and he was able to help me with my decision to have treatment on my eye.
1	I check my weight daily and some days it's increased substantially despite no real change in my diet. This seems to happen most often after I've eaten at a restaurant. Knowing that salty foods can cause the body to hold water for a longer period of time, I can conclude that restaurants use high amounts of salt in their foods and that shows up on the scale as increased weight from excess water in the body.
-1	I had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when I had a sonogram on my thyroid. I understood what I was told by my physician and why they wanted to do further testing, due to the results of the sonogram.
1	I knew that a loved one had a bowel blockage that needed to be addressed. It wasn't because the doctors only focused on the fact that that person had cancer. They refused to look at anything else. It was a hard battle to win.
1	An experience I had in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I when my toddler daughter fell from a tree and cut her arm. She was frantic but I observed that the cut was relatively minor, was an isolated injury, did not appear to need stitches and there were no apparent breaks or rapid swelling. I soothed her tears by reassuring her as I cleaned her cut thoroughly and applied pressure to stop the bleeding. Then I applied a sterile bandage to the wound and walked her through some gentle range of motion maneuvers to verify that her wrist and elbow were unaffected. Since everything checked out OK, I determined that a trip to a physician was probably not necessary. I cleaned and dressed the wound, changed her bandage over the following week, and her healing progressed without incident.
-1	I have had wheezy breathing since I was a kid, but it was usually only when I was doing something particularly strenuous like hiking or riding my bike. When I got older, I did a good deal of research after experiencing bad wheezing while trying to get back into exercising again. I deduced that I likely had exercise induced asthma. I went to a doctor about it and they confirmed that it was that. 
1	When my daughter was little, she was prone to very high fever when sick, often over 104-105 degrees. I was aware that we were approaching dangerous territory.  Early on, doctors told us that we could overlap Acetaminophen and Ibuprofen every 4 hours because that would allow us to wait the recommended time between the same medication while shortening the time between medications.  We continued this practice, understanding that we were not exceeding recommended dosage, when she would have high fevers. 
1	My son was being evaluated by a cardiologist for a heart condition. The doctor was explaining to me that his pulmonary valve has stenosis and hence had a diagnosis of pulmonary valve stenosis. Because I had recently took a course in college on the heart and how it functions I knew what the word stenosis meant. I also knew the hearts structure and functioning. Without the course I took in college I probably would not have known these terms nor had an understanding how the heart functions or its structures. Because I had prior knowledge of the heart it made it much easier for me to ask questions of the doctor about the diagnosis. It made me feel more at ease when communicating with the doctor because I knew the basic medical terms when referring to the heart. 
1	My cadets used to have breathing problems occasionally when we would exercise. Sometimes they passed out. It was my duty to help them stabalize.
1	When my dad was diagnosed with kidney cancer, we both talked about the face that his 1 year survival rate was only about 15%. Particularly interesting was the fact that he had a rare form of kidney cancer and his next door neighbor died of the same cancer a few decades before making us wonder if there was an unusual cluster happening.
1	Recently had a rare winter snow storm in south La. and power was out for days, it was very cold. I knew I would get sick my lungs do not adapt to drastic fast changes in temps. Couple of days later I had a burning sensation in my lung with cough and congestion and a temperature. Called and got in to see my dr and I had pneumonia., I knew what it was before I went in. I pay attention to my body and am aware of my condition and what it means so I got in to the Dr quickly
-1	My experiences in knowledge of health or medical issues are better till now.I have no any serious diseases infecting my body.So far there has no signs of fatal deficiencies in my body. 
1	Often I don't know much about what is going on with me medically, once I get the results of blood tests or other diagnostic information is when I start studying and trying to understand. I once got pregnant while using an IUD and being on the pill. I had an intrauterine and an ectopic pregnancy at the same time. They always teach reproduction at the end of anatomy and physiology courses (6/6 times for me it was at the end) so it's usually rushed and cursory, so I needed the doctors to explain a ton to me. Like I didn't know that ectopic fetus' (feti?) don't grow at the same rate as intrauterine ones. Anyway, all the things I learned through that experience, like that I have a bicornuate uterus that makes my IUD less effective, were things I had to explain clearly to new health care providers as I have moved around.
-1	I was told I could possibly be at risk of not being able to have children when I went to the hospital a few years ago due to stomach cramping. I questioned them and they could not explain that to me. I asked why they thought that and if they had any proof and they could not. I told them they shoulndn't be telling people that. 
-1	I work with babies and children all the time. I had a baby come in one morning with a low grade fever and a white tongue. I immediately sent him back home with his mom, and told her he needed to go to the doctor that I thought he was showing signs of thrush. Sure enough, she got him an appointment, and he indeed had thrush. 
1	A few years ago, my youngest son, who was 7 at the time, was hit by a car.  He suffered a traumatic brain injury.  He was on life support and in a coma for 3 weeks. He then was placed in a rehab hospital for many more weeks.  I had to quickly learn what was happening around me, the machines, the medications, and the monitors.  Nothing existed outside of his hospital room.
-1	Being a nurse is obviously the most prominent example of demonstrating my knowledge of medical or health issues. Besides that, having children has been another way of demonstrating my knowledge. I have also had a few health issues of my own. 
1	When my girlfriend got very sick with some weird symptoms, I was able to tell her which ones were concerning and which ones were perfectly normal. 
1	There have been many times in my life where I was able to assess my medical problem myself and avoid a doctor's visit because I knew there was no danger and I merely needed to ride it out. At the end of last year, I correctly guessed that my oncoming symptoms meant I had contracted strep throat, so I visited a doctor immediately rather than suffer through that for weeks.
-1	I know when I am having trouble with my Cholesterol.  I know when I start feeling a certain way -- tired ect. that I am not treating it like I should be.
1	I don't know that I have many, just that I have have a few surgeries and regularly see a neurologist for migraines.
1	Within two weeks of each other I experienced a surgery to remove a lump in my breast and a procedure to remove a kidney stone. Within those two weeks, I learned a lot about my health and medical issues.
1	generally everytime I go to the doctor or er, because I've had biology and medical classes and know a thing or two
1	I went into my doctor to discuss my mental health options for anxiety.  I knew there was different classes of anxiety and depression medications, but I had a hard time figuring out what would be best for me.  My spouse had to help me figure out which would be safe for me so I don't have negative side effects like I had had before.  I couldn't separate the thoughts of the side effects to the physiological effects.  
1	I gave birth to my son at 23 weeks (17 weeks early).  During his NICU stay, the doctor was trying to explain to me what problems we were looking at long term for him (ex: Cerebral Palsy, blindness, lung problems) but, before the doctor could finish I was already listing all the different possibilities to him.  He was amazed at my knowledge of the all that was involved in my having my son so early.
-1	When my husband had cancer I had to learn a lot of information. He had issues that were never discussed with us about his long term problems from head and neck radiation.
1	My husband has diabetes and so i learned alot from him. I couple years ago my doctor told me that my blood sugar was borderline but i could reduce it by changing my diet. I was fully aware of what that meant and the implications of it and i knew fully what she was talking about and what to do
-1	I am starting mammograms and I ask my doc questions.  I have breast cance in the family.  I've already decided what I'll do if I'm diagnosed with cancer.  I'd rather go into doc office with information I've gotten.
-1	One such experience was when I helped to take care of a loved one who was sick. I knew by taking her temperature that she could be monitored more closely for signs of infection. For example if her temperature was above 100, she would have a fever and needed medical care because she might become septic.
1	We have three kids.  Without preventive measures, if one gets sick, we'll all get sick.  Any time one of them has vomiting or diarrhea, we take precautions by sanitizing everything by cleaning and spraying disinfectant and quarantining when  possible.  By taking these measures, I'm sure we've saved ourselves hours of agony.
-1	When my husband died and i had to give him cpr. Which i did till medics got there then they took over. Unfortunately he did'tn make it. I was thankful that i had learned cpr in my younger days and was able to  hellp.
1	 I fell and scratched my wrist in my front yard one morning. When I put my hand in my pocket about 2 hrs later I was shocked by the pain from my hand. My fingers were swollen and red in just a couple of hours. I went to the VA clinic and was told I must have had a sting because infection didn't occur as quickly as that. I went home and tried to rest but I realized I was feverish.  I went to the hospital emergency rooms and they immediately admitted me with a MRSA infection. I was told that had I followed clinic instructions I probably would not have lived.
1	My sister was describing pain in her abdomen,  After showing me where the pain was I told her she may have appendicitis.  After going to the hospital it was confirmed she had it,
-1	I worked in the medical related field so I talk to doctor regularly regarding the product we sell to them. Also we had a health issue with our family member so that forces me to learn more about medical terminology and consequences of having certain diseases. What to do in order to prevent it. Of course, nothing is 100% preventable but work towards it will help. Importance of eating habit, exercise. Regularly visiting doctors for the checkup. Same way regularly going for dental appointment are some of the few proactive tasks.
1	Just reading random articles and looking to understand more common health occurrences and illnesses beyond a generic understanding of what most individuals would have.
-1	experience in myr lifestyle that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues it's I'm alive, been to Dr. Have degree.
-1	I have had a few experiences in my life that could demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have type 2 diabetes and I manage and control that like I should everyday, I also have gastroproisis and I understand that live with it and control it everyday.
1	There was some white sags in my throat once, I already know what they are, is an infection Ive already had before, so all I needed to get was some antibiotics, I told a doctor friend of myne to give me a prescription. 
1	With the exception of minor things such as headaches, stomachaches, sore throats, colds and the flu, I am not sure if I ever have really demonstrated much knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	My father was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis years ago and he had a very hard time being able to understand any of the information that he got. Since I had been in college taking medical and biological classes, I was able to break it down for him and help him make the decisions that he needed to.
1	I fell down a flight of concrete stairs once and got pretty banged up but felt OK to walk and did not immediately go to the hospital because I knew that I did not have a concussion. I knew to go to the hospital the next day as my neck was extremely sore and my hand had bruised severely, and I knew that I had at least one broken bone in my hand.
1	My son was diagnosed as having ADHD but did not show many key symptoms. I took him to different doctors after having done my own research. I believed he was mildly autistic and it was confirmed many years later that he has Asperger's Syndrome.
1	One time, I had to go to the dentist and ended up needing an antibiotic for an infection. I told them to give me Clindamycin instead of Erythromycin because I had previously had an infection that was resistant to Erythromycin and I was allergic to Penicillin.
-1	Learning how to eat properly, as a result of growing up terribly out of shape. This led to me learning about the dangers of meat and dairy, finding out which foods nourish and heal the body, as well as nutrients and supplements. 
1	My son was born with syndactyl (webbed toes) and his left hand was webbed also.  During that experience I did a lot of research in order to decide what to do for him.  We consulted with several different doctors and specialists.  (Part of that was due to us moving and having to find new doctors).  I felt pretty knowledgeable about his condition.
1	My mother has serious health conditions, and has had 8 major surgeries.  Her most recent 30 years have been rough (that's more than half of her life).  I learned a lot growing up with a sickly mother.
1	My grandfather suffered from a heart attack several years ago.  He was told to stop using tobacco after surgery and he could reduce his change of another heart problem by a significant percentage.  I helped him to understand how important it was to stop using tobacco.
-1	I had a cyst in my hand when I was 19 years old, but did not know what it was at the time. I used the internet to look up my symptoms and found out that it was a cyst. When I went to the doctor, I told them what I thought it was based on my research and it turned out that I was correct.
1	When my husband had an iliostomy and I had to help him change it and had to deal with giving him IV meds and had to deal with dr and insurance companies and everything else as well as taking care of my two small kids.
1	When I was younger, I had contracted Mononucleosis. After I had completely recovered, I had developed lumps on my shins. Most people would automatically assume that they were shin splints, but I knew better. I met with one Dr. who diagnoses me with shin splints even though I told him that I was not an active person. I also showed him my research results which suggested that I had Erythema Nodosum, which is common after contracting Mononucleosis. That Dr. told me I was wrong, so I went to a Dermatologist instead who confirmed that I was absolutely correct.
-1	Brain Tumors a condition called Neurofibromatosis. Very serious. I have both and right now my daughter has one of these diseases. Also premature babies my first born was born at 25 weeks. At 1lb 3oz. Over 4 months in the hospital
1	I was eating at a restaurant and a woman in her early sixties started grasps at her chest, and then passed out. I immediately started CPR on her and others in the restaurant called for help. I learned later that she had had a heart attack, and that my efforts had helped to save her life. It was one of the best and worst experiences in my life. 
1	i am an optometry student so i often talk to friends about their eye problems and help them especially with proper contact lens care
1	I have Hypothyroidism.   I have been getting treatment for years.  I have normal numbers but still have symptoms.  My doctor does not listen to me even though I know my body better than anyone else.  This frustrates me because I have done my research and know that other people have the same symptoms as me despite having normal numbers
1	I have a good knowledge of conditions that i have had in the past. There was a time when i had to have a series of test done and through the research to find out what it could be i was able to help the doctor know what test to try
-1	Two weeks ago, my puppy got ear infection and started feeling really bad. I took care of him for about ten days. I cleaned his ear, put medicine on it, changed the gauze, and closely kept an eye on him. I knew which medicine to use, and how often to use. Also, I knew how effectively to clean his ear and take care of the infected area. Soon enough, my dog got a lot better and now his ear infection is completely gone.
-1	There are many, but because I have a nursing background, most of my friends come to me for medical advice and to explain what the doctor told them.  Before I give any medical advice or explanations, I always ask if they have been to their doctor and what did he tell them.  
1	I broke my arm many years ago and was told I needed surgery to fix my arm.  When I reviewed the surgery the doctor suggested I realized that they wanted to put pins in my bones to hold them together and in turn it would dramatically reduce my range of motion in my arm.  I decided not to have the surgery and found a doctor who agreed to take a slow approach to healing my broken arm.  I spent nearly a year in various casts and my arm healed on it's own, with full range of motion.  Had I not taking the time and energy to research my arm and the suggested surgery, I may not be living the life I have now and my physical abilities would be reduced.
1	Wow, um. I guess when my son's piano teacher was diagnosed with the same breast cancer my best friend had just beaten the year before. I was able to point her to resources she needed, and helped her formulate questions to ask regarding her treatment. I learned a lot as my bff went through her treatments and reconstruction that was beneficial to my son's piano teacher. 
-1	actually in very difficult to understand simple read some terms and diagnoses, that's why I find it hard to understand and I need some to explain many times the diagnosis
1	I helped my dad take my grandfather to the emergency room when he was sick. The doctor told us what was wrong with my grandfather using medical terms. I understood this and told my dad in more simple words.
1	I had a liver transplant in 2003. Since then I have become the go to expert for the people I know on anything to do with the liver. Or any organ transplant. Or really any major surgery. Even veterinary questions. I really dont know that much about the medical knowledge behind liver transplants, but I can advise on how to approach the procedure, and what to expect to happen after the procedure (which is more important to the patient, anyway). I know I have been able to put some peoples minds at ease who have experienced a transplant, so that makes me feel good. In 2017 I had a kidney transplant, so now Im an expert on that, too.
-1	I believe that doctors are incompetent. Every experience I have had with an doctor has been miserable. There have been doctors that have told me I wasnt a virgin, steered me in the wrong way as far as medicine and about health decisions 
1	A friend began suffering from terrible migraines, but didn't want to go to the doctor. I asked him different questions to identify the cause, including whether he had any dental issues. He didn't see the connection, but admitted that he had an exposed nerve in one of his teeth. I suggested he stopped avoiding the dentist because that may be the cause of his migraines. Within a few days of going to the dentist, his migraines stopped.
1	I had a heart issue awhile ago and I went to the doctor about it. I had a few appointments with specialists for tests and it ended up being a benign issue that has mostly resolved at this point. I researched and listened to the doctors and they were correct.
1	I tried to use my math skills the best that I felt that I could to try and figure out the information presented.
1	I have a chronic endocrine disorder that I diagnosed myself based on research done in medical journals. I had been to a variety of doctors who missed the symptoms. Once I found out that the disorder sounded like me, I went to a doctor who confirmed the diagnosis through blood work and other testing. I might still be without diagnosis had I not been able to find it myself. 
1	I verbally walked a patient through what will happen during a cerebral angiogram from start to finish.  What they will experience and and to expect from the dr.'s.  I have had these before myself and i also schedule them.
1	I was a coach for many years and I would teach my athletes about proper diet, hydration, and exercising. I believed in helping the athletes be healthier and better conditioned to be able to handle sports and injuries.
1	I had a friend that I was helping out when I noticed that she was having problems. First it was just not being able to remember but then she couldn't add and that was not like this smart individual so I asked her a few questions and I told her she needed to go to the doctor right away.  I was right she had a brain tumor that was causing her trouble.
-1	well because of my health issues I was able to figure out my husband had diabetes and diabetic nephropathy and he was able to go to the doctor to get treated for it and he is doing much better
-1	About 15 years ago my primary physician was completing my annual exam and asked if I was experiencing any pain in my upper back.  I told her that I was aware of the curve in my spin but that I had attributed the discomfort that I was having from the years of pushing Z-racks at work. She prompted informed me of the medical term for the physical condition and recommended that I keep an eye on it.  She did send me to have xrays done to begin tracking.
-1	my experience is very little, but when i do a medical exam i read the results online after going to my doctor and understand all
-1	I was able to successfully nurse my bedridden brother who had suffered multiple injuries from a near fatal accident. I followed the doctors directions.
1	I can't be specific. However, I learned about edema in the hospital. I knew that this was a serious issue and could be life threatening. This information was instrumental in helping me to understand the facts of a condition. 
1	Apologies in advance if this isn't exactly the type of experience that you're looking for, but it's the only thing that I can think of that somewhat relates. Whenever I run across something that I don't know about (especially a health issue), I typically try to do as much research on it as I can. As mentioned before, I suffer from IBS. I tried to do what research that I could on my own, but I eventually had to cave and go to the doctor when it didn't seem to get any better (it's a good thing that I did, because I likely also had a stomach ulcer). Anyway, fast forward about half a year later, and it seems that my IBS is getting worse and my medicine doesn't seem to be helping that much. I go to the doctor again to get a different medicine, which also doesn't seem to be doing much good. In the meantime, I've been keeping a food journal and doing more research on my own. After a couple of months of pain, I figure out the problem--I've developed fructose malabsorption. After cutting out soda and other things high in fructose, the problem is as fixed as it can be.
1	After a mishap on the bicycle immediately after getting home I thoroughly cleaned the scrape and applied Neosporin then covered the wound with a bandage.  Over the next couple days I regularly cleaned the wound and watched for any signs of infection.
-1	I had to go to the doctor with my mother when she was having a stroke and I had to explain all of her symptoms to not only the doctor, but the paramedics and nurses as well. Explaining her symptoms directly helped them get my mother care faster.
1	I had a toothache and found out it was infected. They gave me an antibiotic to take for 15 days. I felt better in two days, but continued to take the antibiotic as directed, because I know that is what you are supposed to do or else a new hardier strain could develop.
1	I had trouble breathing through my nose during exercise. It turns out, it was because I had a blockage in my nose called nasal polyps. I had heard about this from reading things online about congestion. I realized I needed to treat it with nasal spray so I went to my doctor about it.
-1	In 2004, I took a bad fall in front of the hospital I worked at which resulted in a fractured right hip.  It required surgery and 4 weeks later after a rehab stay I was home and regaining my mobility and living life at a much slower pace.  It was the first time I was incapacitated and had to rely on others for help.  I knew that I needed to follow the dr's orders and almost 9 months later I was back to work.  I did everything as ordered and because I was familiar with medical jargon I was a good patient.
1	My mother is a type 1 diabetic which she got in her 20s. So since then she is well versed in medical knowledge and keeps on it. She kept up on me as a kid and into my 20s. I think I learned a lot from that and apply what I learned from my mom to own health. I also consult with her still. 
1	I recall when my son had an accident by the door slamming to his fingers. He almost lost the tip of his fingers the doctors told me that I have the option of either amputate or go for a surgery to try to save the fingers but the chances are very slim. I asked them to give written information about the surgery and the likelihood of success. I took my time to go through the information provided and based on what they told me and my knowledge and I decided that he will go for surgery. It was one of the best decisions i have ever made, four years later my son's finger look pretty normal.
-1	When I tried to lose weight a few years ago I created an eating plan that was very healthy and I actually ate everything i needed to eat and was losing weight fast without starving.
-1	I eat very well. I know a lot about which foods are healthy and which are not. Every meal I eat is very healthy.
1	I have a family tree of cancer, Both my parents, my sister, and also many of my relative had diagnosed as cancer in their life. So, I know that I'd better having physical exam at least once a year and early detection will save my life when I become cancer.
-1	exercising everyday for at least 45 minutes, h elps with your heart rate, sleeping rate, lowers cholesterol, muscle tone. stretching helps with overall well being.
1	When my father was ill with cancer, I was his advocate as well as him home care person.  I learned to give injections, check IV lines, administer medications at home with the help and guidance of hospice.  I learned all that I had to learn in order to keep him home so that he could pass at home and not in a sterile hospital environment.
-1	I was losing weight and had no appetite. I continued going to the doctor but everything seemed normal. I ended up in the hospital with PE's. A month later I found out I had thyroid cancer. The only reason it was found was because a scan was done looking for clots. My labs had always been normal. I understood the need for surgery to remove half my thyroid to prevent it from spreading and that the clots were probably caused from that.
1	I really just use what I have been through plus what information I get while online. I like to read about things so it makes me curious to know things.
1	I'm a Registered Nurse and took care of my husband when he was sick and dying.  At that time, the doctors communicated with me as a professional most of the time and respected my knowledge of medical issues.  We worked as collaborators.  
1	when my husband fell and broke his nose, he also got a concussion.  He kept asking me the same questions over and over, which indicated short term memory loss. He also lost a lot of blood.  The paramedics came  and took him in the ambulance.  I called them because I thought there might be a head or neck injury, and I didnt want to move him and make it worse,
-1	Mostly just general information that a lot of people know. And I've also taken some classes in college that detail health things
1	When I was pregnant my Doctor always was so surprised that I knew as much as I did. He would always go try to explain things to me and I would always start before him and tell him what he was already going to tell me. And even now with my birth control I told him things before he could even tell me.
1	I had an anxiety attack and anxiety issues that caused me to over think some things. I meditated and calmed myself down to help clear my mind and decided that what I was worried about is nothing. 
1	Not very long ago I was diagnosed with bronchitis; The results showed that the cause was a bacteria so I was prescribed a strong antibiotic to be taken for 3 days only, which I took it and it the end the bronchitis was gone. 
-1	I've been an advocate for those diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. Neurologists all over the country give their newly diagnosed patients my phone number and email because they find that I'm better at explaining things than they are sometimes because I've lived with MS for 40 years. This doesn't say that I can do percentages anymore, but I have been a great  layperson neurological and psychological source to countless people I've been told for more years than I can count:-)
1	a coworker was eating some food and their throat started to close up. They were saying that they thought they were having an allergic reaction. I happened to have some benadryl, so I gave it to them. This helped reduce the swelling of their throat while we waited for an EMT to arrive.
-1	I had a pap done when I was 14 they told me my cells were abnormal that I have verbal cancer. They later tested me and said that I have HPV which could turn into cervical cancer years down the road
1	I was one of the first to see the signs that my brother has diabetes. I recall his sweet smelling breath and pointing out he was always thirsty.
1	My insurance company wanted to charge me hundreds of dollars a year to recieve a vitamin that could be purchasd over the counter for the same effect but significiantly different price. I declined and purchaed otc and the results i needed came in spite of their recommmendation. I h a d to stand up for myself and be knowledgeable in what wAs available
-1	When I felt a lump in my right breast and immediately went to see my doctor. He checked it out and sent me to get a mammography and I found out it was caused by a car accident, I was in.
1	One morning I woke up and noticed that half of my face was paralyzed.  I initially thought that I must have had a stroke.  But, then I remembered seeing this happen to a friend, and it was later diagnosed as Bell's Palsy.  I went on WebMd and realized that what I was mostly likely experiencing was Bell's Palsy.  I went to the hospital to have the proper screenings to make sure it was not a stroke.  Sure enough, my prediction was correct.  I had Bell's Palsy.  I suffered facial paralysis for several weeks, but after about 3 months, I experienced a full and total recovery.  
1	A friend and I were out at a restaurant one night late after having worked together, when he started seizing. We rushed to the hospital and from there I had to describe to the doctors what had happened and help take care of his information as he was unconscious. He recovered and was diagnosed with epilepsy.  
-1	I was in a severe car accident and broke my pelvic bone. I was in the emergency room for 4 hours and I saw a lot that went on at the hospital. The doctors and nurses are trying to save lives at a timely manner to get people in and out. I was sent to a private room for 3 days then released. It was a very painful recovery but with the help of therapy I made it. I am thankful.
1	I was diagnosed with thyroid cancer and needed to learn more about this disease and my options in order to make an informed decision regarding treatment, surgery, etc. I researched the best area doctors and surgeons and got a second opinion before making my decision on how to manage this diagnosis. 
1	I deal with medical issues on a daily basis at work. I am a medical coder and biller. In order to bill the insurance companies correctly, I need to code the patient's illness and care correctly. However, a strong background in the medical terminology is needed in order to make sure every supply and illness is properly coded. I often need to assist my colleagues in  this area, I am the only one in the office who is certified, so the other secretaries look to me for assistance. 
1	When my wife said her stomach was hurting she was concerned she may have been having a heart attack but knowing that at her age that it was rare and the other symptoms i felt confident telling her it was because of the leftover pizza she ate
1	One time, my brother got sick while my parents were out of town. I took care of him by doing everything my mom would do for me when I was sick. I made him stay in bed, drink lots of fluids, and take some aspirin every four hours.
1	For about six years, I was the full time caretaker for my grandmother. I had to know what medications she was allergic to, and monitor her pulse and blood pressure daily, and I had to adjust dosage of some of her medications depending on what the readings were, per her doctor's instructions.
1	I helped my best friend lose over 100 pounds by guiding him thru calorie counting and eating healthier meals. His blood pressure went down, his doctor told him his BMI is now in a healthy range and he was no longer on track to need medication for diabetes. He was constantly asking me questions about how to proceed and went 100% by the advice and guidance I gave him.
1	I was asked my medical history by a new doctor recently and gave her a care description. Of my families long history of medical issues including some she had never heard of.
-1	I have had a lot of terrible scarring issues that are too traumatic to write about. I have very bad PTSD from everything and am constantly in fear. 
1	I've often had to monitor my own blood sugar blood pressure to change my dosages of certain medications because my doctors have me on a flexible dosage that I need to adjust based on my current numbers. 
-1	When I was dealing with acute bronchitis, I realized there was only so much I could do aside from taking antibiotics. I realized there were certain foods that actually helped me feel better
1	I have two children.  Through experience and knowledge and I am pretty capable of knowing when to take them to the doctor versus just resting at home and when they are contagious or not.
1	My dad is a diabetic.  I have conversations with him often about his condition.  I often give him suggestions on foods that he could eat that are low in carbohydrates to try to help him lower his blood sugar. 
1	My son has allergies and acid reflux and I have always managed his medical issues with medicine by measuring appropriate doses and managing his diet.
-1	My wife went to the ER and I knew what was wrong with her. The doctor's said exactly what I had synthesized from reading online and from institution. 
-1	My son had quite a few ear infections as a baby and into toddlerhood.  When my daughter was born, I knew the signs to look for in order to take her to be seen.  Luckily, she never had an eardrum rupture (as my son did) due to my knowledge of the ear canal and what to watch for.  I felt more on top of things with my sencond child, medically speaking.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health was when I went to the hospital for having gastroenteritis. I had a lot of questions on why this was inside of me and exactly what I got it from.
1	I have a friend that is diabetic. She has a pump that constantly pumps insulin in to her. We went on a trip to New York and we were sightseeing. Suddenly Christine did not seem right. She seemed spacey but said she felt fine. I stopped at a street vendor and got her an ice cream cone as that was all that was around. She had that and was just fine after that. I knew what to watch for with her and what to do. 
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when i started having symptoms of a concussion. I knew what to look for and what it was. 
-1	My grandpa came home on hospice and needed his oxygen concentrator set up at his house. The hospice company delivered it but no one stuck around to hook him up to it. I was able to figure out from some past experience how to add water to the cannister and set the appropriate flow rate for him. 
1	Someone asked me about their chest hurting and their fingers getting numb and I was able to help them decide not to spend money and go to the ER for a heart attack because it was actually a panic attack. 
-1	I studied biology and medicine in college. I read through what types of medicines there are from doctor medical to therapy medical. I studied what their responses are that occurred in the body
-1	I don't have an extreme amount of health experience or knowledge of health.  I try to stay up-to-date, like most people, but all we have to keep us up-to-date are statistics and calculations put forth by professionals in the medical field.  
1	When I had my daughter she was born with a different blood type than me and had very bad jaundice due to it. I had researched jaundice prior to her birth because my oldest child had it as well, so I had knowledge.
1	I am a Type 1 Diabetic.  Several years ago, I had to go to the hospital due to catching the flu.  I ended up staying overnight because I was dehydrated.  I had to explain to the doctor how I calculate how much insulin I need to take based upon the food that I consumed. 
1	My sister was diagnosed with ovarian cancer, stage 3C. I was able to tell her about the different options for treatment. 
-1	I found out over 10 years back I had a mitral valve prolapse. I knew nothing at first but learned about this through research over time. I learned this can be a genetic defect where both heart valves do not close completely. I educated myself.
1	I guess when I get sick I am able to know the difference between viral and bacterial diseases. I am able to know that I don't always get antibiotics (they aren't always effective or useful) and that I shouldn't ask the doctor for them.
-1	I've never really had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues, but in every case i have made an effort to treat my health situation as best as possible.
-1	I've worked as a CNA for a few years.  I also have a few minor health problems. I read on health related issues occasionally too. I like to be in the know.  I'm terrible with math so all my answers are probably wrong.  
1	When I was trying to lose weight for my wedding, I vigorously kept track of the calories I consumed by reading every label and went running everyday. I made sure that I was at a calorie deficit everyday to ensure that I was losing weight.
1	My care for my mother with Alzheimers disease. I have read several books and spoken many times with her doctor on how to properly care for her. I know how to give her the medications she needs, move her without injuring her and feed her without causing choking.
1	I had a basal cell carcinoma removed from the top of my head last year.  My father has also had these so I knew a little about what to expect from Mohs surgery.
1	I try to keep up on health related current events.  I am well versed in the flu and was actually hospitalized several years ago because I was so sick. I knew based on my symptoms and that my fever was increasing to get help.
1	I work with children and often have to deal with minor injuries and illness and decide what might need medical attention. This includes monitoring fevers and knowing when they need to see a doctor.
-1	My mother and grandmother are both cancer patients and I attended a lot of the appointments with the many doctors and took notes for them.
1	The only incident that stands out was when my mother began to have somewhat of a reaction to her low blood sugar. She wasn't able to communicate very well, but i knew right away what was going on and what she needed.
-1	I was able to make informed decisions in regards to receiving eating disorder treatment. I selected the right treatment sentence for me. 
1	All through high school and college, I had an interest in medical/health so I took classes as electives.  I usually received A's for the classes at a top 20 public university.
1	The only real experience would be when I was young in Boy Scouts and we learned first aid for many different injuries and illnesses. We demonstrated that knowledge every year in an annual first aid competition where we were given different scenarios and judged on how we handled the incident.
1	There's not too many to list for me. I tend to defer to someone else. However, there have been various times where I've commented (ie: on social media) with my understanding of issues that I have experience with. For example, a couple years ago I explained to a worried young male what a varicocele was.
1	These questions were not nessasaraly about knowledge of health, they are more about the knowledge of math.  I learned a lot about my health after I blew out my knee
1	I had trouble getting pregnant so I had to do IVF. I ended up doing lots of research on my own to come up with a plan with my doctor to get pregnant. I suggested some medications that were newly researched to my doctor.
1	I guess I would talk about times that I take my kids to the doctor.  I understand what their blood pressure, temp. and other vital signs should be.  This always me to ask intelligant questions or express my concerns. 
-1	I was able to research a procedure that my husband had to have. It was a scary time because he had to go under, but the knowledge gained eased the stress.
1	I was having a lot of trouble sleeping for a prolonged period of time.  The doctor believed I need to take anti anxiety medication, but I was sure that I did not.  The doctor tried prescribing me two different types of meds at two different time points, but I declined both and opted for a sleep medication instead.  I took that for a period of time and then my sleep returned to normal, which it still is. 
-1	Get a dictionary of medical terms and look up the ones you don't know in your reading material. Use the terms in sentences until they make sense. Audit some classes having to do with nursing and medicine at your local college. Go online and read medical articles that have to do with your particular medical interests.
1	After having my child, over time the symptoms of post partum depression began to appear. Having dealt with depression in the past I was able to recognize the symptoms. After a few triggering events everything came to a head. It was probably 3 weeks of struggling to even get out of bed that made me realize that I needed to seek help. I first reached out to ladies in my mom group who assured me that I was neither alone or losing my mind. From there I had the confidence to reach out to my doctor. At my appointment I described everything that was going on and we were able to get me on the appropriate medicine that I knew from past experience worked for me.
1	As I have taken some science classes in college, I felt like I had the basic gist of things when I got back my annual physical results.  I was able to see and determine which indicators were normal or abnormal.  I was able to research what I didn't know and find answers to my questions.
-1	I had a baby recently and spent some time in and around the hospital for sometime. I had some complications and had to run several test and had several month working on health issues.
1	I have had a lot of medical issues in my life which help  my knowledge. I also previously was an LPN for about nine years which help contribute to my medical knowledge that I have.
1	I went to the doctor to get bloodwork done because I was noticing some symptoms that could be caused by various medical conditions, including thyroid or dietary issues. I knew which issues to mention to the doctor to be screened.
1	During a breast exam conducted by my primary care physician, she noted a lump. She then fully explained to me the details of the lump including whether it was firm or not, its size, its direction in relation to my nipple etc. She also then discussed the plans going forward (performing an ultrasound). I was able to understand all of this information, which allowed me to agree with her decisions and choices.
1	I have knowledge of health and medical issues in the sense that I typically know when to go to the doctor. I know what symptoms are associated with what illnesses, and I know what to expect from treatment. For instance, I had the flu a few weeks ago. After most of my symptoms had passed, my lymph nodes became so swollen that they were visible from across the room. I knew I was getting a secondary infection and went to the doctor. As I had predicted, they put me on prednisone and a strong antibiotic.
1	I take my blood pressure readings on a fairly consistant basis.  I noticed that my readings were creeping upwards and I was at the same time feeling other odd syntoms, such as my arm hurting.  I called my doctor and suggested I have a stress test to see if some significant was going on.
-1	I was feeling sick i had fever and flu symptoms. However something didnt feel right. I noticed my lymp nodes on my neck were swollen. I knew this could be a serious viral infection. I went to see my doctor and in deed i had a viral infection. My doctor gave me antibiotics.
-1	Helping my friend when she was running a fever. Tell her to take tylenol and drink liguids. Also making sure she saw a doctor for further help.
-1	Having been reading health materials and also being literate. Some health information are basic and most of it are derived from calculations so it is easy to describe the real situation
1	Going to the doctor and knowing how low my blood pressure should be and what birth control works best for me
1	I worked with children with severe and profound illnesses as a result I learned a number of basic medical techniques including tube feeding, IV maintenance, and other low level tasks that I would have to perform in an emergency.  In addition the necessity of understanding medical issues with a rare disease gets much higher since many doctors have never heard of my condition. 
-1	my life experience while i visit hospitals sometime i observe a few doctors and patients so i know what what its life to pay attention to all the issues and treat them 
1	I had a missed miscarriage and was scheduled for a D&C the following morning.  A few years later a friend was also experiencing a missed miscarriage and her doctor gave her the option to wait and miscarry naturally or have the D&C.  I was able to discuss my experience with her and what I learned after my surgery was complete.  My experience was able to help her make her own decision.  
-1	I helped my sister when she fell and sprained her ankle. Helped her elevate it and put ice  on it until she could get to a doctor
1	I did have a false positive mammogram. I did have to have  a biopsy, etc. but I stayed calm and went through the process to make sure that it was nothing.
-1	My daughter was 8 months old and became ill. We took her to the doctor several times and he kept saying she had the flu. Because of how I often read medical books, I knew something was wrong other than the flu. I was right. My daughter was eventually hospitalized and the doctors said she would have died if not for a miracle and my persistence. 
1	My husband was diagnosed with serrated polyposis and frequently has colonoscopies to manage and monitor it.  He is often still groggy from the anesthesia when his doctors come to talk to us about the findings so I've largely taken control over understanding the condition and the information the doctors tell us.
1	I previously worked in the emergency room as a behavioral health technician. It was my job to behavioral and medical concerns. Abbreviations were commonly used by physicians, so I needed to interpret certain paperwork that patients gave to me from their physicians. 
-1	When I was in the field we trained us how to respond a patient like doing CPR, inserting IV fluids to the patient and Emergency response situation.
-1	I do my own research on the internet and ask friends. A doctor once misdiagnosed my appendicitis. I   have an appendix that points backward instead of forward in my body, so the symptoms present were in a different location. I researched and found this information.
1	Last month, I what seemed like pretty standard pharyngitis for a few days. However, one day it progressed into ear symptoms and tremendous pressure and I knew that I had a middle ear infection. I called the physician (spending several hundred dollars to confirm what I already knew), got antibiotics, and since I was proactive and caught it quickly rather than waiting, there wasn't any hearing damage or other lasting effects.  
1	My most knowledgeable experience was when I had a cardiac ablation for AFib. I had done quite a bit of research on my own and my cardiologist explained everything so thoroughly that I felt I knew what was going to happen each step of the way leading to the procedure and then through recovery.
1	I had to go to the doctor once because I was having headaches and I was getting out of breath going up stairs and when I was working and I told the doctor I thought my blood pressure was too high and it was. 
1	I mean, I take very good care of myself, and I often give people nutrition and health advice. I dealt with mental illness (depression and anxiety) for years until I finally decided I needed to tackle it from all sides and finally get rid of it. This involved a great deal of research and realizing just how important physical self-care was for mental health. This was something I had neglected for years, especially in terms of sleep and nutrition. So I finally started getting enough sleep on a regular basis, eating healthy, and taking carefully selected supplements that are helpful for mental and general health, and overcame mental illness for good.
1	I decided to visit my doctor because I had a strange birthmark on my foot that I was worried about. My doctor examined the birthmark and told me that I shouldn't worry about it. However, I felt good about my diligence. 
1	I was walking up a steep hill and slipped.  I fell and skid on my knees for several feet down the hill.  My knees were cut up badly and there was dirt and rocks in my knees.  Based on my previous medical knowledge I just went home, cleaned the area out with soap and water.  Scrubbed the area down really well, applied antibiotic ointment and gauze covering and it healed on it's own.
1	I have had some first aid training in my life.  I have also had the experience of take care of my family and myself when someone was sick.  
-1	"When I was younger, I was diagnosed with Epstein Barr Virus and I understood what the doctor told me. He explained to me that it was incurable and that the teiters (I probably misspelled that) would never change, but God healed me and the test results did change. My doctor was in shock and He said, ""I believe what you believe""."
-1	My neighbor got stung by a wasp last year.  He was stung on the neck.  The sting was very red and swelling fast.  I took him to the emergency room.  He found out he was allergic and it waas a good thing I took him on to the emergency room.
1	I went for a physical exam and was told I had high blood pressure.  I already was familiar with the condition because there are people in my family who have the same condition.  I was aware of the type of medication that could be prescribed to me.
-1	When I went to the doctor and they explained to me the chances of heart disease, I new the numbers and understood the percentages right away.
-1	I diagnosed myself as having hypothyroidism because the symptoms that I was experiencing I researched and found that I had the condition. I set an appointment with my doctor and told her and she told me she had to do test to confirm what the ailment was and sure enough it was nypothyroidism
1	I had a Vitamin D defiency and when my brother mentioned he was tired more and sleeping more too I told him he should take some Vitamin D to help with that because that was how I felt too when I was defient.
-1	My doctor has given me a lot of information on my past medical history and illnesses. They give me information on what I need to watch out for and how I can deal with symptoms.
1	I was in the military and during my years in the service, I maintained a combat medic certification. This was an annual certification that required continuing education classes in order to keep up to date.
-1	When I was drinking in college I developed a bleed from my upper GI tack.  This was my first real trauma and dealing with a hospital for an extended stay.
-1	I went to Nursing school earlier on in life and was exposed to alot of medical terminology.  In day to day life I am able to comprehend.
1	Once I was shadowing a physician prior to begging medical school. The physician asked me (in front of the patient), if the patient started off with a throat infection, and eventually developed an ear infection, how did this come about? I responded with, either the eustachian tube, or a superimposed infection brought on by the weak immune system. He told me great job and correct. Patient looked at me with pride. 
1	When my mother was battling cancer, she had a black out spell. My daughter living in California called me to come home (I was in Utah at the time). I got their as quick as I could, about a day later, and went straight to my mom in the hospital. I talked over her condition with her doctor and he was confident due to my responses that I understood what she needed and I could take her home.
1	One experience in my life that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when my grandfather started to suffer from a heart attack. I saw the symptoms. 
1	After years of going to the allopathic doctor and getting lots of tests done and very little answers, I stopped listening to mainstream medicine and started learning about naturopathic medicine.  I felt awful and had difficultly thinking clearly often. I started taking vitamin B-12 tincture, nascent iodine, and did a parisite cleanse (which includes micro-organisms, not just the FDA's definition of a parisite), and for the first time in my life I can think clearly by default and stopped taking prescription medication for ADD.
-1	I think I do well at assessing my own health issues. If I am dizzy or light headed I will try to eat sugary foods. If my symptoms are any worse I will diagnose them the best I can then see a doctor if needed. 
1	My niece had made coffee using a coffee maker but forgot to place the sieve (sheet). Therefore, the coffee was highly concentrated when we drunk it. After about an hour, I felt very nervous and jittery (I was watching a football game) which I attributed to my favorite team losing, but took some time to lie down regardless. I was able to assess my true symptoms and quickly realized that this was no normal reaction  I had overdosed from caffeine. We went to the emergency room and the doctor said my quick reaction saved my life  and my niece's.
-1	I dont have alot of knowledge when it comes to health or medical issues. So im not sure what i would even write in this form here.
-1	I was told I had asthma and I exercised and took supplements and I no longer need medicine or feel the symptoms of asthma. I feel healthy now.  I trust in nature and god not the doctors !
1	As a hypochondriac I do a lot of research on different health issues, so when my friend was experiencing digestive issues, I questioned him regarding his symptoms and then accurately guessed his condition, which was later verified by his doctor.
1	My mother is diabetic and has several other health issues and a history of cancer and more recently heart disease. Because I have spent so much time at hospitals with her, I am accustomed to the signs and affects of certain different health issues. I can usually help her before she even asks just by observing how she is feeilng
1	Over the course of several days, I've noticed my roommate has stayed in the bathroom for long periods throwing up. His diet isn't the best, as he consumes a lot of sugary foods/drinks such as soda and candy as well as eating a lot of fast food. I told him his symptoms reminded me of someone who has acid reflux and searched online to confirm these symptoms. When he got officially diagnosed by a doctor, it was confirmed. 
-1	I was told a few years ago that I needed to have major surgery, and what the recovery process would be like afterwards. So, I remember that I researched as much as I could and I thought ahead of any questions that I could ask when I sat down for my consultation with the surgeon.
1	I have suffered from depression and I started to realize it when my mood started changing and went from bad to worse. I was emotionally distraught and physically fatigued. From what I knew I was suffering from depressions and anxiety and went to my doctor. He prescribed medicines to address both issues and within a few weeks I started to feel better
1	A doctor told me to get the flu vaccine during pregnancy. My friend is against vaccinations, especially during pregnancy, and told me not to get it. I did some research on the topic and found out for myself that I should get the vaccine because the risks to my baby seemed to be lower if I did.
1	I had some odd symptoms last year that were not going away on their own, and was trying to find out information online.  I eventually self diagnosed myself with shingles, as what I had looked like the images I found online.  I went to the doctor for confirmation and a prescription, and he said it was indeed shingles, and prescribed me antibiotics which cleared it up pretty quickly.
-1	guess i'm not doing so well at the math so maybe i do have difficulties understanding health info. but that's not old age, i've always been like that
1	"Last time I went to the doctor I was given a new prescription and when I was asked if I had any questions or wanted more information on the prescription I reiterated to the doctor everything I had learned from the information included to make sure I understood everyting correctly, and all the doctor need to say was ""Great, there's nothing more I need to teach you!"" as I did indeed read correctly everything that was given to me."
-1	Had an ache in my side for several days before I made it to the doctor. In the meantime, I took care of it as a kidney infection (correctly) because I knew that was where my kidney was and saw my symptoms.
1	My grandfather went to the urologist and had a PSA blood test done.  I knew from his results, being over 3.0, that this meant he would likely need a biopsy to test for prostate cancer.  I also knew that these tests could produce higher than normal levels if the patient has an enlarged prostate.  I asked to see his former results.  They were up and down a lot, which is typically a sign that there is NOT prostate cancer, but instead, an enlarged prostate.  I also knew that an enlarged prostate could be due to prostatitis, an infection of the prostate.  Sure enough, he went back to the doctor to follow up, and turned out to have a prostate infection.
1	I was able to recognize the early stages of ADHD in my eldest child due to caring for my cousin for many years when he was younger (he had the same condition). Since I knew so much about the condition already, I was able to sidestep a lot of the pitfalls that many parents of ADHD children have to deal with, since I knew what to expect and why.
1	I know that antibiotic is only effective against bacteria infection and should be use for viral or fungus infection. When a doctor prescribe antibiotic I should continue to take the medicine until it runs out even if I feel better only after taken it for a few days. 
1	My husband's cholesterol is high.  We talked to the doctor and then looked up information to see what target number we needed to get him to.  Then we researched on our own and followed information the doctor gave us to determine the changes we could make in our diet and exercise program to help bring his cholesterol down.  We were able to facilitate that change enough in 6 months to avoid needing to have him take medication.
1	I was a medical coder and biller for 6 months. I had to read the doctor's dictations and assign each surgery or visit a code to be paid by the insurance companies.
1	 About ten years ago I was out at a bar with a friend of mine. We had a few drinks and then caught the bus back to my house. We were sitting in the living room trying to decide what to order for dinner  when he started to complain about feeling dizzy. He excused himself and went to the bathroom. A few minutes later I heard a loud thud and went to go check on him. The door was open and he was having a seizure on the floor. I pulled him by the shoulders out of the small bathroom and into the larger adjacent room. I elevated his head on my knees and stuck my leather wallet between his teeth. After about ten seconds or so he calmed down. He was kind of out of it so I called an ambulance for him. He was ok in the end but is now on medication.
1	I worked as a medical receptionist at an ear, nose, throat clinic for 2 years. There I learned a lot of medical lingo and how things are run behind the scenes at a clinic.
1	Years ago I had been having back pain. It had lasted for about a week, and initially thought that I had just pulled a muscle. I woke up one night with more than a mild pain and a fever. I knew that I likely had a kidney infection because of these symptoms. 
1	i was talking to my sister about flu shots and the ages of children being able to get their flu shots and what options are available for people who are older or that have certain allergies to be able to get their flu shots.
1	When I was taking care of my grandfather when he was undergoing dialysis, I had to read plenty of forms and research the procedures, remedies, and prognoses online.
-1	I was told that I had pneumonia but they could not determine whether or not it was viral or bacterial and rushed to prescribe me antibiotics and an inhaler. I looked up all of the options and decided that it was prudent for me to take this medication.
-1	i am not a doctor or nurse so i do not have a lot experience in being right over their knowedge at all. i have no experience where i would consider myself more knowledgeable than them,. that would be arrogant and i would not understand someone doing that.
1	My son has asthma. I am aware of when an asthma attack is coming on and treat it as fast as possible. My son tend to wait until his asthma is getting out of control before informing me about it. i have had to learn to be watchful and to also teach him warning sign so that we can keep it under control with out frequent visits to the ER.
1	When I went to the doctors for a checkup we talked about getting a flu shot. I explained how I heard the flu shot wasn't effective at the time and I'd be better taking my chances and not getting it. The doctor agreed and I didn't get sick that winter.
1	I recently was told I have  a health issue that can be corrected with medication.  I don't like the side effects, but I know the issue could cause more problems than the medication. 
-1	I have a health condition. When  I went to the er I was very knowledgable of what the doctor was asking in regards to my condition. 
1	I was having trouble going to sleep at night which is very unlike me. Usually I fall asleep within five minutes. I reviewed what I had been doing and eating and realized that I had started drinking more caffeine than usual later in the evening. I stopped drinking any caffeinated beverages after 5 pm and my insomnia disappeared.
1	One example that comes immediately to mind is tracking maximum heart rate of VO2 max as it applies to active fitness.  I volunteered for a study several years ago where we measured both of these metrics over the course of several months while on a fitness regimen.  This process allowed me to learn more about how my age affects my workouts and the target heart rate I should aim for.  I also learned about oxygen levels and how that plays a large role in your fitness, specifically with cardio exercises.
1	I was able to use the internet to correctly recognize that my mother was exhibiting symptoms of Ludwig's Angina, resulting in a life-saving trip to the ER.
1	A friend of mine recently was having severe pain on her upper right side and wanted to wait it out. I'd previously had my gallbladder removed and knew that this was a symptom. I convinced her to go to the emergency room to be checked out just in case and I ended up being correct.
1	My husband had high cholesterol, high triglycerides high blood pressure and hypothyroid. I have done a ton of research and even called experts in the fields and asked for advice. My husband would not take statins drugs. He will only take his synthroid for the hypothyroid. With diet, supplements, exercise and good advice from experts he no longer has high blood pressure or high triglycerides. I have his cholesterol in a good range which is just a hair below treatment and he feels very good. I myself only take supplements and all my tests come back normal because I believe in taking care of my health. I have the osteoporosis only and I have that under control.
-1	I take care of dependent adults with disabilities and assist them with their medications and appointments this has helped me gain a little knowledge
1	When a family member was having symptoms of a heart attack I knew they should go to the emergency room based on those symptoms. I have other family members who have heart problems, and I worry myself, so I have read a lot of information, and gained a lot of knowledge about heart disease from my doctor.
1	I saw a podiatrist recently for fungal infection even though I knew that I could not treat it internally while still breastfeeding my six-month old daughter. I accepted the referral and went to the appointment to see what, if any, my other options were, and what the time table would be like to pursue internal treatment.
1	There was a time I went to the doctor with a certain set of symptoms and told the doctor I would like a prescription for amoxicillin and he agreed that would be appropriate for the symptoms and wrote one up.
1	My husband was showing the symptoms of Lyme disease, and I knew it was likely that he could have been bitten by a tick recently, so I made him go to the doctor and it turned out that he did have Lyme disease.
1	Well, when I had blood in my urine, I knew I was either having a kidney problem or a bladder problem.  After having tests run, and getting to see both a kidney specialist and an urologist, it was found that I had bladder cancer.
-1	My father was recently instructed to undergo some preventative screenings. He was extremely nervous and uncertain about what to expect. I have had several of his recommended test and, based on my first-hand knowledge, was able to alleviate some of his fears. 
1	I had to live through my mothers cancer surgery, chemo, recovery. I was the one talking to all the doctors, and my mother was able to follow all of the instructions.
1	I really can't think of a particularly good example.  I guess recently I've been watching what I eat and working out more, and as a result I've lost fat and gained muscle mass.
1	I broke my foot a couple weeks ago. Going in I was very clear about my questions, asked about the options, and volunteered what I knew the treatment would likely be if the x-rays came back in the affirmative. 
1	I monitor my cholesterol and calorie intake carefully.  I also exercise 5 days a week via walking or lifting light weights.  I do to my doctor, dentist and eye doctor regularly.
1	There is no one experience. Experience is built up over a life time. Obviously without medical schooling a person is limited on how much knowledge they could have. I would say I had a complex medical issue years ago that I used the Internet and doctors to attempt to resolve. 
1	My friend developed symptoms of losing weight, feeling tired, coughing, and sinus problems. I have known people with these symptoms who had lung cancer. I urged my friend to see a doctor, and he found that he did have cancer.
1	Both of my sisters died from ovarian cancer in their early forties.  My paternal grandmother also died from the same disease and it was determined that a genetic mutation was the cause.  I knew that if I was tested for the mutation, I would be able to make a more informed decision to remove my ovaries or not.  I was tested and opted not to remove my ovaries because I didn't have the mutation which lowered my risk for the disease.
1	My husband wanted me to take our youngest son to the ER. I told him that there wasn't anything they could do, I'll be told to push fluids and have him rest because it's just viral and had to run its course. Went to the ER in the middle of night and that's exactly what I was told to do, $200 later. 
-1	A friend of mine messaged me with a complaint about a pain in her side, after she described the pain, I told her to that it was appendicitis and to get to hospital. She went to the hospital and had emergency surgery to remove her appendix that same day,
-1	When I was pregnant they were testing me for Preeclampsia every time I went to see the doctor. All the tests were coming back negative. When i was in my third trimester i started feeling sick, I always felt like I had high blood pressure. I felt like I was slowly developing preeclampsia. Tests for some reason were not showing anything even though i felt all the symptoms of preeclampsia. At 39 weeks tests finally showed it and i was hospitalized and induced the same day due to severe preeclampsia. 
1	When my wife was having our daughter, I researched a lot of the different drugs and prodecdures that were going. I asked the nurses and doctors about what was going on and if there would be any side effects to the drugs. For her and the baby as well. I tried to be informed as possible with everything going on.
1	When I went to the doctor this morning he went over a number of items and I had no issues understanding them.
-1	Once a year, I usually get a very bad case of the flu and I never go to the doctor to get medication or to get a check up. I avoid going to the doctor so much and despise the thought of getting told bad news about my health that I just tough it out. It can potentially last for months at a time, and even though I know in the back of my head that if I go to the doctor's office they could probably prescribe a medication that could help me much faster than whatever is over the counter, I do not go. I know I am in the wrong and it really shows a lack of understanding when it comes to medical issues. 
1	An experience in life that demonstrated my health knowledge was when i had a job in high school and a kid asked me how to not get a girl pregnant. Then the question led me to tell him that their are birth control pills that a woman can take to not get themselves pregnant.
1	I had a co-worker who got told she had diabetes. My best friend growing up had type 1 diabetes and my Nana had type 2, so I talked with her awhile about what to expect, what stable blood pressure looked like, and what types of food to eat and which to avoid.
1	I try to be very careful when it comes to eating white flour; I usually eat whole wheat and brown rice and try to limit my sugar intake.
1	After having several kidney stones I knew what my pain was and I also knew what the procedure was to remedy the problem.
-1	My husband had numbness and tingling in his right leg causing drop foot . It did not add up to me because yes he had back herneiation but not typical pain from herniation so we tried many different doctors of all kinds and behold he was finally diagnosed with MS we are not completely sold on that diagnoses either so this is disconcerting as well because he isnt that mobile anymore. 
1	I sprained my ankle.  I did not go to  the doctor because I knew that I should ice it, keep it up and stay off it.   I also wrapped it.  I did not see why I should pay money for the doctor when I knew what to do.
1	I worked for a medical software company and so that gave me an extended vocabulary surrounding medical conditions. Beyond that my father is diabetic and has had a heart attack.
1	I was able to assist an elderly woman who we were friends with with her blood sugar. She was getting sick and it turns out that her blood sugar was getting too high because of her sweet potato consumption. She thought only desserts and things with added sugar would spike her blood sugar.
-1	Eleven years ago, I was having digestive issues. Because I received no answers from my physician, I took matters into my own hands. Yes, I self diagnosed. I kept a food diary and noted how different foods made me feel. I suspected I was gluten intolerant. When I removed gluten from my diet, many symptoms disappeared within one week. Later, I took a lab test and it found that I was gluten intolerant. 
1	I have very little experience and knowledge of health or medical issues.  I rarely go to the doctors, only once 1 year or if I'm really sick.
1	A girl in my dance class complained that whenever she bent forward and stayed there for more than a few seconds, the blood rushed to her head and she got black spots in her vision. I told her that it was because she has low blood pressure, as the same thing happens to myself and my father for the same reason. 
1	When my children have not been feeling well, I've been able to get them what they need to feel better. Ex. tylenol for teething, etc.  
-1	I have had unknown leg pain most of my life. I injured my back quite a few years ago, and I  have worked in a hospital a few years ago. I have take medical terminology classes. Biology classes. As well as as a few other classes to be a Naturopathic Practitioner.  I have yet to take the Anatomy classes.
-1	I went to the cardiologist when I had unusual pain in the center of my chest. I told him due to the nature of the pain and the heart disease history of my family I felt I needed an angioplasty to check for blockages. It turned out I needed a stent.
1	working in a hospital and radiology office in the past has inhanced my knowledge of medical issues.  I did ultrasounds for 7 years,  and it taght me many things about healthcare.
1	I was having a certain problem that often can be mistaken for another very common health problem.  After many doctors visits, lab tests all coming back negative. There was still no resolution to my problem. With my own research and persistence I was able to present the Doctor with a possible diagnosis and once we both agree and I was given treatment my symptoms were almost gone or at least quite managable. 
-1	 I used to work in the public school system. I worked with a teacher who was a Type One diabetic. I also had a son in law at the time who was a Type One diabetic. I had witnessed my son in law's struggles with blood sugar ups and downs,and had seen him suffering from a complication of diabetes,known as Ketoacidosis. Because of my hands on experience with my son in law,I was able to recognize the signs and symptoms in the teacher I worked with,when she fell ill one day. I was able to summon help for her and give my opinion on what was going on with her in the moment,health-wise. It turned out I was correct and that she did indeed have Ketoacidosis.
1	I was at get together at a friends house and her parents were there.  We were outside playing volleyball and her father started feeling dizzy and out of breath and his heat was pounding.  I thought he might be having a heat stroke, so I made sure we put cool, wet towels on his head and around the back of his neck.  It turned out that it was a heat stroke and they told me that this probably helped to not cause him more harm from this.
-1	When I sprained my knee in a third world country. I had to rely on my own and online research.  I did not have the chance to go to the doctor because of the country.
-1	I suppose this would have been associated with my father's cancer, where I had to essentially inform myself about the things he should/shouldn't eat during that point in time, especially since he didn't clearly discuss these issues since I was a teenager (he didn't want me worrying).
1	My boyfriend was complaining of swelling in his groin area, which was a concern due to the location.  I knew that lymph nodes were located in that area (along with several other areas of the body) and that it might just be that his body is fighting off a sickness.  Over the next few days he came down with a viral infection.
1	An instance in my life that demonstrated medical issues is when i was pregnant and put on bedrest  I was very aware of how to act, what to do and not to do.  I was able to carry to full term when only given a 30% chance of it
1	My mom took multiple pills and was just out on a new one, one night she started talking crazy and incoherrant along with inability to move. Remembering she just started a new pill knew she was probably having side effects from the drugs.
-1	I had been told by my primary care physician that I was anemic due to menustration. I knew from college that I was supposed to ask why I was anemic and I knew my pcp had just pulled it out of his ass that it was due to my menustration. I went to a new GYN and he realized that I was insulin resistant while the other doctor missed it.
1	After the birth of my son, I noticed that his skin was unusually dry and would not retain moisture from any of the varieties of lotion that I purchased. After taking him to a Dermatologist, he was diagnosed with Eczema. I manage his condition my moisturizing him with Bag Balm, which is very efficient in managing his skin moisture and I make sure to use sunscreen on him.
1	I have had discussions with people in the health profession but I am not sure what you are asking in this question.
1	I feel like going through the process of having a baby has helped educate me in terms of health and medical issues. I read up on various medical issues that could happen during pregnancy and delivery. 
-1	I have often had to look up medical questions. I really feel like I know nothing about medicine. I just learn from looking it up
1	When I was 19 years old, I worked as Direct Care staff for an individual with autism. Along with autism he had other health issues and. Part of my job was to be knowledgeable about those issues and how to handle them if any problem arised
-1	I learned a lot about health issues when my appendix burst. I had to do research on what to eat and what medications to take
1	In 2013, I went deaf in one ear after blowing my nose. I waited a week to see if it would get better. It didn't. I realized the cause was actually an infection I had had a decade earlier that never completely went away. A small participle of infection had remained in my sinuses for a decade, then moved when I blew my nose. If I hadn't figured that out, and relied upon a doctor to figure it, I might have have had the infection inside my ear pop my ear drum or worse.
1	In 1995, I came down with an extreme flu-like illness that I almost died from. Several years later, after researching the information online and talking with my doctor, i came to the conclusion that i had Hanta-virus due to living in close quarters with a field mouse that infected me. 
1	My last place of employment did not even have a basic first aid kit. I carried a trauma kit in my car. So, anyone that had a minor injury came to me for assistance.
-1	I worked in a prison for awhile and became well aware of diabetes because we were charged with checking blood sugar and providing insulin, if needed. 
1	When I was in high school I dislocated my elbow and could not afford physical therapy so I had to do it myself. The exercises and stretches were painful but appropriate in learning to use my arm again
1	when i was in the coast guard, i learned how to do the heimlich maneuver to save people from choking. it's nothing i've ever had to use on someone, and i'm glad, but i still remember how to do it in case i ever need to.
1	There was a time where I had a rash and  I didn't know what it was because allergy medicines weren't working. I looked up multiple rashes online and found out about eczema, so I got some treatment for it and it helped take the rash away.
1	I knew I had GERD after realizing that some over-the counter medications were no longer effective in treating my symptoms.  had also noticed that something as simple as drinking a glass of water too fast would trigger heart burn and a great deal of discomfort. 
1	I lift weights 3 days per week and do 4+ total hours of cardio per week, in addition to walking at least 7 hours per week (I have a desk job, so even though I'd like more than that, I am content with 7). I do this because I understand muscle mass is important, and can be harder to put on as one ages. Also, strength training can help with bone density, which is useful especially as women age. I also want good cardiovascular health. This is all because people in my family tend to live to be quite old (my great-grandmother is 96!), but not necessarily with a great quality of life, and I want to have a great quality of life as I age.
1	I was at the doctor's office and they were explaining to me what it meant to have high blood pressure, the potential complications that it can cause, and what I need to change in my life in order to get my blood pressure under control. I understand all of the information they gave to me, I implemented it and I had a normal blood pressure reading 6 months later at my next visit.
1	After suffering many broken bones I was able to diagnose thy I had a shattered finger bone after slipping at work and also tore two tendons (did not diagnose that) but could tell by the level of pain I was experiencing that a bone in fact was broken
-1	When I was at the doctors he was explaining my condition in vast detail and I understood every part and asked a technical question about it and he was able to fill me in on the more hard parts. Like the likelyhood of certain medications to cause elevated blood calcium.
-1	A time in my life that demonstrated I had knowledge of health issues was when I started taking care of my 81 year old grandmother. She was very sick with multiple illnesses and I had to learn about them all and learn about her medications and the things I needed to do to be able to take care of her properly.
-1	My experience in life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was the last year when I had to help a old lady in the street.
-1	I've helped others with mental illness. I've had pretty unique experiences with mental health that has led me to advising others. Answering questions for people. 
1	My dad was having some health issues. He was experiencing some ankle swelling. I knew this could be a sign of heart trouble. He went to his Dr and found out that he was having trouble with a heart valve.
1	I cannot think of a time in my life where I had the chance to demonstrate my medical knowledge except to apply it to my daily life and try to keep myself as healthy as possible. 
1	My first husband was diagnosed with a Glioblastoma multiforma? tumor. There were alot of hospital and drs appts that we had to go to. Blood sugars that were bounced more than Tigger and it was hard trying to find ways to control it.
1	I am a full-time nurse practicer and I work in the health field on a daily basis, and it's between my duties to help others in their checks and formes
-1	I can't really think of anything but probably the first time i talked to my grandfather about his recent cancer diagnosis and didn't feel like he had to explain many things to me as i understood 
1	I was diagnosed with Lupus. I already knew what the disease was and what the possible complications were. I did not know about treatment options at the time
1	When I was twenty five I had to make the decision to go through with an experimental surgery for my migraine headaches.  I was told at the time that I could either not survive the surgery or could come out paralyzed.  However, I knew that I required trying this surgery to try to improve my quality of life.  I had spent much time in headache clinics as well as a month inpatient in a special migraine unit in Michigan where they tried to solve my migraines.
1	I recently was bitten by a dog. I knew to try to get a little blood out of the wound and then rinse it with water and soap before wrapping. I was reluctant to go to the ER due to costs, so I waited until the following day to go to my primary care physician.
1	I was a psychologist / counselor working in a family medicine clinic.  Many times I helped people understand what their physicians were suggesting.  Most common questions related to probabilities of different outcomes with different types of treatment.  The above question about the meaning of a positive test for breast cancer, and what to do about it was a common one.
1	When trying to get into better shape I knew what foods to eat and how much exercise needed. I knew what heart rate to target while exercising as well.
1	My father, a man in extraordinary health, had breast cancer last year. It proved to me that even if you dont smoke, don't drink, eat a healthy, sugar free diet, you can still get cancer. 
1	I had to speak to my grandmother's doctor after she suffered a mini stroke, as my mother wasn't at the hospital yet.  My grandma had already had a couple of mini strokes, but the strokes coupled with her dementia turned out to be devastating to her brain.  The latest stroke left her unable to speak, or walk.  She ended up being diagnosed with Vascular Dementia, and the doctor was in such shock with the diagnosis as my grandmother had been a high school math teacher.  The doctor ended up giving me advice as to how best to prevent myself from getting dementia.
1	I was experiencing a ringing in my ears. I scheduled an appointment with an ENT and after extensive hearing testing, the doctor confirmed by believe that I have tinnitus.
1	My then 9-year old son was using the bathroom a lot.  He was running to urinate about every 15 minutes or so.  After observing this for a few days, I asked him if he was also thirsty.  He said he was.  I told my wife that he likely had diabetes and that we needed to get him to the doctor first thing tomorrow (it was a Sunday when I was talking with him).  The doctor checked his blood sugar the next day and found that it was over 700.  We got his diabetes under control and so far, he has continued to live a good life (he is now almost 22).
-1	I have had my gallbladder removed due to gallstones. I have also had a c-section. I have worked in radiology for 15 years.
1	One time I felt like I was having a heart attack but I was relatively young so I thought surely it couldn't be that.  I went to the doctor and found out after doing tests that it was in fact an anxiety attack.  The next time something similar happened I still went to the doctor but was able to inform him of the symptoms being almost the same as the previous time and was pretty sure it was the same thing and it did turn out to be.
-1	I had a doctor that attempted to prescribe me the wrong prescription, despite me telling him that I was allergic to that medication.  He didnt hear a word he said.  Had I taken it, I may not be here.
1	The only thing that comes to mind is when I had to write a paper on reproductive health, and I had to present it for a class in my senior year of college as well discuss reproductive health in a workshop I was co-facilitating at an internship site I was working at.
1	I have worked in the medical field (in an optometry office) for the last 10 years. I have spent 15 years taking care of my mother, who had congestive heart failure due to methamphetamine usage, along with epilepsy, diabetes, high blood pressure, two strokes, history of blood clots, and high cholesterol. She spent 10 years in and out of the hospital and I was her sole care taker. I have also spent the last 20 years of my life helping to care for my grandfather who has agent orange poisoning from the Vietnam War. He has leukemia, emphysema, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, history of stroke, and several other issues. I have spent a lot of time in hospitals with him and taking classes better learning to care for his conditions. I personally have fibromyalgia, arthritis, migraines with auras, and am immunocompromised so I spend a fair amount of time in the care of doctors myself.
-1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when my husband was diagnosed with high cholesterol. I was able to use previous knowledge and research techniques to adjust his diet in order to lower his cholesterol. 
-1	I was playing basketball and I had ran into a person and he landed on my knee.  I went to the ER and they said that I sprained my knee.  It didn't feel right so I did some research and pushed and it turns out that I torn my ACL, MCL.
-1	When I went to the doctor early knowing that my water broke even thought they predicted that she would arrive later. I researched the signs to looks for and was correct 
1	I don't feel like I really have one. I've worked in medical education as an administrator for years so I know some words, but as far as working knowledge or an ability to display that, I cannot think of an example. 
1	I don't really have a knowledge of medical issues except for the ones I have.  I did know that I had a melanoma because I was in australia where there is little ozone and I knew the signs of melanoma.
1	My daughter took a bad fall and before any medical attention arrived I was going through steps to check and be sure that she was conscious, nothing was broken. I checked the bleeding and stopped it. Checked her level of consciousness. Tried to keep everyone calm. 
-1	When I went to my doctor in a different town he told me I had an under active thyroid and that made it harder for me to lose weight.  That gave me the knowledge that of have today to know what affects my efforts at weightloss.
1	I can't say I have ever had an experience that really demonstrated my knowledge of any health or medical issues. I have so far been pretty healthy.
1	When I was taken to the hospital from my place of work in an ambulance. I ended up in the ER and the ICU and have no memory of it at all. However, when I did become cognizant again, I realized that they were pumping meds into me for high blood pressure and I knew that I'd have to take them for the rest of my life. I also knew that my life had probably been save because I could have had a heart attack or stroke. 
-1	I had a torn ACL last summer. This was a result of a prior ACL injury that I had in the past. When I got hurt last summer I knew it is going to be my ligament and that I am going to need to have a surgery most likely. I felt the damage in my knee and I know it is going to be very serious. When I went to see a doctor he told me the same thing that this is going to be ligament and/or meniscus. I ended up having both. Bot I got it fixed and now it feels better.
1	"Whenever I go to the doctor they always ask a bunch of questions, like when's the last time ""so and so happened"" or what medicine are you allergic to, or what are you currently taking. "
1	My father died in 2005 after a long battle with cancer.  I got to know a fair amount about white blood cell counts and anemia and some of the other issues he faced along the way.  I know bits and pieces here and there. 
1	I was diagnosed with a bulging disc. The medication that I was prescribed was a pain medication. I knew that this medication could become addictive. I did some research on the medication and found out that the medication was highly addictive. I called my physician and requested a different medication that would work but not be addictive.
1	I remember when i was young and i got my first asthma attack and i couldn't breathe. I spent the next 3-4 days in the hospital because of it and i learned a few things about the process.
1	I have had bio-metric screenings done numerous times, and have been told and understood all of the measurements given to me for blood pressure, cholesterol, body mass index. Also having to take prescription medicine has never been an issue for me in understanding side effects and how much and how often to take.
1	In college I took a medical ethics class where we discussed topics such as euthanasia, vaccines, and the health care system. We had to know what the current laws were and the opinions of leading medical philosophy scholars. 
1	Last summer I worked as a nanny/lifeguard for the home of a private family of two kids. One day one of the kids jumped into the deep end without my knowledge and started to drown, after I was informed he was pulled out of the pool and I started CPR as he was not breathing. 
1	At 5 am I heard the dog barking from my Mom's bedroom. When I got there I saw that she looked ok but things were out of place (dog on floor instead of bed, she was on the opposite side of bed from where she usually was). I talked to her for a minute and she wasn't normal. I thought she had a stroke and called 911. It turned out to be a seizure.
-1	I have anxiety attacks, so I know that I am not eating a healthy diet or doing the right things in order to minimize them. I also know if I have one coming, I can take medication to help rid of it. 
-1	My brother was having intense pain in his side that was moving around to the front of his body. I brought him to the ER and suspected kidney stones. I was correct that was his diagnosis.
1	I have had jobs in the medical field and worked on improving my health a lot over time. I am also planning to go back to grad school for physical therapy and have had plenty of schooling in the health field. 
1	One time I was having an incredible pain in my stomach. I had a decent idea of what was going on, but I went to the doctor just to be safe. The doctor confirmed my layman's hypothesis. 
-1	I have always been asked by neighbors of family members to check up on their lab results which is Ok because I am a medical technologist. It really turns weird when they want me to check up on their x-rays, MRI's Cat scans and such.  I am not a doctor you know.
-1	After my mother had hip surgery, I was able to identify that her wound was infected because of previous knowledge that I had. It encouraged her to see her doctor.
1	When I had endometrial cancer, I learned a lot about my body. I learned all I could about it so I could stay well informed during my doctor visits and treatment. 
1	I was told that I had hep C and was given the chance to take alpha interferon. I took the time to find out my genotype, which turned out tom be 2B, which was very responsive to interferon. I took the medicine and within a month the virus was undetectable by PCR.
1	A time that I demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is when I started having an allergic reaction and developed red itchy bumps all over my skin. I did my research online and found out that I had hives, and that Benadryl should help them go away. 
1	My daughter has CF. I spoke at length with her doctor about the benefits of adding a new drug to her daily routine.
1	Frankly, I was not confident to answer the above questions.  I realized that I have no any knowledge about medical issues.  However, I tried to figure out correct answer as hard as possible.    
1	When my mother was diagnosed with diabetes I was able to help her get to classes and learn how to make better choices to control it. I may not have had the information directly but I knew where to get it and what questions to ask. We found the best treatments that were suited to her needs and she is now living in a much better condition than before her diagnosis. 
1	I was sick and thought it might be a bacterial infection, rather than a virus, so that antibiotics might help. I went to the doctor, and it was a bacterial infection which the antibiotics helped, and I felt better.
-1	"I spent a good deal of my childhood being treated for various mood disorders. having these different diagnosis given to me gave me some degree of understanding about how to approach medical information when it is given to me in a medical environment. Otherwise, i have always taken an interest in nutrition and have always read nutrition labels which has helped me understand what is conventionally understood to be ""healthy"" or ""unhealthy"" foods"
1	I sometimes track my calories on what I eat if I'm trying to lose weight. I have to read the labels and serving size of foods to make sure I don't eat too many calories. For medical issues, I have to measure out medication into a syringe and had to learn to inject myself intramusculary. 
1	I was taking care of my grandmother who was stage 4 cancer.  Having taken CNA classes I knew how to assist her with using the toilet and change her as well as give her medicine. 
-1	I took an anatomy & physiology class.  It helped me understand the body parts, and systems.  I still remember some of the very odd things in the body, like the golgi apparatus - I remember things I find funny, or very weird.
1	When my mom needed a hysterectomy, often times I had to translate dialogue between her and her English-speaking doctor.  We'd often discuss current medications and past medical history and her general overall health.
-1	Very recently I felt strong heartburn in my esophagus, typically a doctor would recommend some anti-acids, but, given that I've taken some courses in college and know certain things about the human body, anti-acids were to make my condition worse because 90% of heartburn is caused by too little acid. Based on that knowledge I managed to end my heartburn situation by simply decreasing the ph of my stomach. 
1	"My son has had several hospital stays in his life and I am usually able to communicate to the doctors and nurses using medical terms, many of them are surprised and glad to have to not ""dumb down"" the way they explain his health issues."
1	My children have been ill on numerous occassions with upset stomachs.  I know from past experience that they need to stay hydrated and also eat foods that are easy on the stomach.  Being able to know to give them a BRAT diet has saved trips to the doctor.
1	I was pregnant with my son and battling a terrible cold and knew that my options for medication were limited, so I went to my primary and get checked out and was prescribed an inhaler.  I then proceeded to consult my OB to ensure the inhaler was safe for the baby.
-1	In college I took a health and wellness class as an elective. We studied the human body, environmental risk factors that effect human health and all kinds of sicknesses.
-1	Went to a doctor. Told me I had some heart issues and needed to exercise more. Immediately I started walking and jogging on my breaks at work. 
1	This survey is one, I suppose, but I cannot think of an individual time where I may have done this.  I've been able to read and apply medication dosages properly over long periods of time, from a young age(I used to be on ADHD medicine).
1	My husband got a scrape or bite on his elbow. Within a few hours, his elbow swelled up to the size of a tennis ball. This was Not Normal, so we took him to the ER. He turned out to have a staph infection and had to have it lanced, drained, and a drain put in. I had to clean it and drain it three times a day for a week. Luckily, it was ordinary staph, not MRSA.
-1	I know a lot about hypothyroidism because I was diagnosed with it when I was born. I was born without a thyroid so I have to take medication my whole life for it. I am very knowledgeable about it and get blood tests regularly. I explained this to a new doctor I was seeing, so I demonstrated my knowledge of my condition.
1	When my grandpa was in the ER for his gout and fever, the doctor prescribed him a new medication to treat his gout. When we were given the discharge papers, I reviewed everything and reviewed the medications side effects. It had stated that the medication should not be used if another medication is currently being taken. I asked a nurse about that and she wasn't sure about it so she talked to the doctor. The doctor had to review all the medications again and ended up saying it was okay to take both medications at the same time after a thorough review. 
1	I usually obtain copies of blood work, etc. from y doctors.  I realized that there was a vitamin D deficiency.  This went unnoticed for several appointments.  When one doctor recognized the deficiency and called me, I knew I could u as t him.
1	My 1 year old burned his hands on a curling iron and we had to go to mutliple emergency rooms and hospital.  One doctor told me we needed to do immediate surgery.  The burns were bad but not that bad.  I have some knowledge of burns and new the heal naturally very well.  I asked for a second opinion and did not do surgery.  Every thing worked out great.
1	I work in healthcare as a patient care tech so i demonstrate my knowledge to my patients day in and day out. I also took an EMT course through the state i reside in so i use the information i learned there at work each day as well. Lastly, I tend to be the friend that everyone goes to with their medical questions despite my lack of statistical knowledge presented in the past few questions. 
1	When my ex attempted suicide due to a benzodiazpene overdose, I took appropriate measures such as making sure she stayed awake after I found her to reduce risk of brain damage. A negative result of knowing about that class of drug is knowing that memory damage is likely due to damagine GABA receptors, which have a critical role.
1	I was feeling somewhat unbalanced and weak on my left side. I knew it wasn't a stroke because I was not paralyzed, exhibited no symptoms, nor did I have any risk factors. One doctor thought it might have been a stroke. I went to a chiropractor, and after several adjustments, I felt more balanced and stronger on my left side.
1	I have PCOS.  I have done research on it and been to various doctors.  At one point, my doctor put me on the drug metformin.  He did initial blood work but did not follow up.  After doing more research, I learned that he needed to do follow up blood work to check my levels.  He was not doing follow up blood work.  I took myself off of the drug and never went back. PCOS involves a lot of trial and error. I feel like the patient needs to be their own advocate. 
-1	I went to school to be a medical assistant. My first job out of school was at a dermatology office where I served as a medical assistant for a year. I learned all kinds of things about the skin and just the medical field in general. After Dermatology I had experience in OBGYN offices and Primary care. All physicians and offices are very diverse. 
1	I have advanced education in training in the medical field. I have a Bachelors of Science degree in Biological sciences. After obtaining my undergraduate degree, I went to graduate school and received my doctorate in immunology.
1	I have osteoporosis and have had to decide with my doctor on which treatments are best for me - to help with the condition with the least side effects and inconvenience of treatment. I also had to decide with her to have a treatment hiatus to see if my levels would hold. I felt confident in her and in my ability to understand and make these decisions.
1	I can absorb knowledge and information better than most. I have no problems figuring out what I should do when a problem or condition. Usually I have been told before, and I remember it. I always see a doctor for most problems. When get a new prescription, I always ask the pharmacist about the new drug.
1	I know that when I take a UTI test strip test, if it shows signs of leukacytes or nitrates that there is a good chance that I have an infection.
1	I had a uterine fibroid that was removed by hysterectomy. When I found out, I was able to read all the medical information available at that time to about how to treat/handle the fibroid which led me to make the decision to have the surgery.
1	About 20 years ago my daughter called me one morning as my 10 year od grandson was getting on the bus and she happened to mentioned he had been getting up in the night to go to the bathroom. In the next sentence she said and he is so thirsty the last coupe days all he wants to do is drink water. He had already taken the bus so I told her it was urgent for them to get him when he got to school and take him right to his Dr. I said sounds like diabetes. They took him in and his numbers were so high they admitted him to the hospital for a few days. He is a type 1 diabetic.
-1	well i know that some of thesee i did not know but with myself i know because my dr tells me and i can read my paper 
1	My friend had a gallbladder attack and her doctor told her that she could avoid surgery if she ate healthy. She started talking about the things that she ats and I noticed that her diet was not the kind of diet she should have if she is trying to avoid gallbladder attacks. She still ate things like fried chicken or pizza which are foods rich in fat, fat triggers gallbladder attacks and I told her that this kind of food would most certainly lead to a gallbladder attack if she does not cut back or completely eliminate them from her diet. 
-1	I dont have any health issues so I dont know how to answer this question... so dont know how to explain 
1	I sometimes deal with IBS and have researched a bunch of information on it for possible remedies. When my sister started dealing with some stomach issues I was able to help her with some diet tips to get it back under control. She was on a fairly unhealthy diet due to being in college and limited food options, so we figured out a plan that would work for her.
1	I had a length of time in my life where I did not have any health insurance. During this time, I could not go to the doctor's office no matter how ill I became, because I could not afford to pay for treatment. I had to rely on my own knowledge of symptoms and treatments and I became very good at finding reliable sources on Google for anything I might not know, like how to make home treatments. 
1	I had to help my mom with her insulin.  She needed 1 unit for every 20 points her blood sugar was over the reccommended level and i was responsible for figuring out exactly how much insulin to give.
1	There was a time when I was hiking with a friend and she cut herself deeply with a knife while we were away from help. I was able to use a butterfly bandage to hold the wound shut because of what I knew about the nature of the cut.
1	I mostly know about health issues from reading topics online if I have not been informed by my doctor.  Also from school or from further researching things I have seen on TV, from occasion. 
1	I broke my arm in 4 places and had to go to the Doctor who almost had to do surgery on it. Instead though, she put it in a cast and within 8 weeks it had healed. But those were the longest 8 weeks of my life.
-1	have been dealing with low back pain since early twenties. Finally had surgery to correct it. Wanted to send me to PT, but I had been some many time before that I knew all the stretches and had all the equi[ment.
1	I was admitted to hospital having premature labor with my second child. A nurse attempted to start a pitocin drip with no doctor present. I told her pitocin was unnecessary since I was already having contractions. I told her to confer with doctor. Turns out I was right.
1	We were hiking in the backwoods and my friend slipped and cut her hand.  She needed stitches and we were to far out to get help in  time.  I used my sewing kit to sew up her wound.
1	I used to be a lifeguard and was responsible for first aid and basic care in the event of any of the swimmers getting injured. This showed that I knew basic medical information.
-1	I am not sure I have had an experience that gave me any knowledge of health or medical issues.  Except I have a friend with diabetes and have known folks with cancer and have died.
1	A woman I know was having chest pains, she wanted to call an ambulance or drive herself to an emergency room, but I told her that the cost of the ambulance ride might not be covered by her insurance, and her insurance might not cover the cost of her emergency room visit if it turned out that she did not actually need emergency care. After some discussion she decided to take a Lyft to an urgent care facility. I haven't been able to find out what happened to her after that. 
1	While my sister was in the hospital for child birth, I actively monitored her stats. I alerted the nurses when her bp was fluctuating for no reason.
1	The doctors were questioning a condition that a relative had. They were saying that the relative had some symptoms but not all. I then said well doesn't the blood work show some abnormality that could lead to that symptom. The doctors talked about it and they found it could. 
1	When I was fifteen, i experienced some very hard cramps in my abdominal region. My mom kept asking what was wrong and how i was feeling and i told her that i thought it was my stomach itself or something that had to do with it because i wasn't able to poop. Turns out i needed my gallbladder removed because of the severity of the gallstone.
1	There have been a number of times. One time was when our son had an allergic reaction to pecans. He started breaking out in a rash so we gave him benadryl, called the nurse, and kept an eye on him to make sure his airway didn't become involved.
1	I majored in psychology and took many science classes. When I hear about anti-depressant medications, I know the differences between SSRIs and other types and generally understand the mechanism by which they work on the brain. 
1	An experience in your life that demonstrated your knowledge of health or medical issues was when I received my doctorate degree
1	I have a chronic illness and have had multiple complications from that. I have a positive ANA, I've had a stroke yet I've had no heart or vascular disease, I have chronic fatigue, I've had extremely elevated liver enzymes where they go up and down. The one thing they do know I have is Hashimoto's auto immune thyroid and even though it hasn't been confirmed yet, I believe my stroke was caused by my Hashi's because it causes me to have afib sometimes. I know that if I have one Auto immune disease I could have others. I know that if my thyroid hormones are not at the right level they can cause all kinds of problems with metabolic processing that could include problems with my liver or my immune system may decide to attack my liver. I have figured out on my own that my body does not convert T4 to T3 and being on a medication that has both is optimal for me. And I've learned that sometimes blood work does not tell the whole story, that more than anything you have to listen to your symptoms and use those as a guide along with blood work.
-1	Not that there was a lot but the times I did have to have hospital visits for myself and my family members. A few times it was very serious but mostly routine checkups.  And general knowledge I have learned over time.
1	Just going to the doctor and listening to my doctor and reading stuff online from credible sources. My own health problems and how to make it easier through food/exercise and my mother.
1	When I was very young, a girl who lived in my dorm confessed to me that she thought she was pregnant because she had a burning sensation when she was using the bathroom. I told her that wasn't how pregnancy worked and that she probably had a UTI she needed to get treated. (Sorry! I don't have many life experiences that demonstrate knowledge of health issues.)
1	"I kept passing out, when i got results back on my blood sugar it was within ""acceptable levels"" but on the far end. ive fixed that by paying more attention to what I eat and no longer pass out. "
1	I had to make level of resuscitation decisions for my father last week. I consulted with him, my brothers and sisters and the medical professionals to decide on a middle level resuscitation order.
1	I experienced three severe gum infections in a rather short period of time. The first two time I was treated with antibiotic. My PCP was very hesitant to prescribe each time, but especially so the third time. I understood this hesitancy because I was knowledgeable about the increasing difficulty to treat with antibiotics, because of such widespread prevalence of our overexposure to antibiotics, including transmission from animals through foods we eat.
1	When I started to get light headed after awhile was a warning sign that I should go to the doctors since this has never happen to me before. So I went to the doctors and explained what has been happening lately. He then tells me that if anything changed in my daily life. I said I started to work 2 jobs. He said it could be that you overworked yourself but he will still run some test. He told me to take it easy and rest. After a couple of days of rest I was fine.
1	I was having a lot of issues with constant low grade headaches for several months. I saw several doctors and did a plethora of online research to try to find out what was going on.
1	I commonly face experiences where I have demonstrated my health knowledge. My wife has been going through some health issues and I have been helping her understand what she has been told by her provider. 
-1	After finding out I had anemia, I started to drink carrot juice. My doctor was delighted to see my hemoglobin during my next visit.
1	"My dad was having ""bad indigestion"" one day and he told me the symptoms he had had the night before.  I told him in sounded a little like a heart attack.  He was checked out and it was not a heart attack, but it did have similar symptoms."
1	After feeling rather weak, I knew from experience that I have tendencies to have a low iron count. So knowing this, I started uptaking my iron, looking for the most absorbent type of iron as possible, since they are not all the same. 
1	My neighbor came over to visit and as she was leaving she lost her balance a little, I noticed that her speech was starting to slur and face seemed a little slack on one side. It was apparent to me that she may be having a stroke, I called an ambulance and they were able to get her to a doctor quickly to minimize the effects.
1	I've had asthma and allergies my entire life and can explain what is happening with my symptoms accurately to doctors in order for them to best diagnose and solve the issue. I also know which of the over the counter medicines tend to solve which issues quickest and most effectively.
1	An experience in my life where I demonstrated my knowledge of health or  medical issues is when I had jaw surgery. I have been going to the orthodontist since I was two years old. I knew a lot about my mouth and what was going on. Whenever I went to have the actual surgery, I went to a different hospital with different doctors. They were explaining to me everything that was going to happen but since I have been going to the orthodontist for years I already knew everything that was going to happen and could talk to the surgeons like I knew what I was talking about.
1	I have no single experience. I just understand what my doctor is telling me because I understand the human body to some degree because of courses I've taken in school and my own reading.
-1	I was on vacation one time and my wife had a urinary tract infection. Over a couple experiences I had I had learned that if you mix baking soda with ice water and drink it really fast cure hurt urinary tract infection if it's in the early stages.  Well we were on a boat in the middle of the ocean and long story short there wasn't any doctors around unless there was a really expensive one and the lower level of the ship.  After being unexpected vacation we are not about to pay so we figure we would give this trick a try.  Surprisingly it was very hard to let the chef get us some baking soda. He wanted to know what we are doing with it why we wanted it it was actually quite daunting.  Once we finally got it she continued that for a couple days and it was cleared up completely.
-1	I can recall a time a couple of years ago where i started getting this really sore thorat.  It started slow as first and within a couple of days it would not let up.  Ive had strep before and figured that is what it was turning into. i got a flashlight and looked in the back of my throat and sure enough there were little white puss pockets started to form in my throat.  At that point i went straight to the doctor where they ran a strep test and it came back positive for strep.  I was giving antibiotics and it cleared withing a few days, but i finished all of the medicine even though i felt better as it took what was prescribed to me until it was finished. 
1	As I have PCOD problem i am aware of the symptoms and cares to be taken of the health to reduce the problem and in my home my dad have this acromigaly problem by which i am aware of the symptopms of that problem and there is no treatment for this problem and similarly i have knowledge on BP and blood sugar
1	I was able to tell my personal trainer the specific muscles and tendons that were hurting for my left leg.  This was as well as knowing the exercises to do for these.
-1	I had been put on a new anxiety medication, and noticed that I was experiencing some of the side effects that I've heard discussed in the pharmacy.
1	My ex-husband had a stroke during weight-loss surgery many years ago. It affected his speech more than anything else. The doctors explained how the stroke happened. I took lots of notes and asked lots of questions. The information was very technical but the doctor was able to bring it down to our level of understanding. 
-1	none because I have not needed to go to the doctor for any serious issue so I am still healthy and do not need to see to my health for now.       
1	I had to get my gallbladder taken out. Before the doctors realized it, I had mentioned I thought it was gallbladder, and the instacare doctor dismissed it and said I wouldn't be having pain in the middle of my upper stomach area, but I had researched and talked to others that this is true, that you can feel the pain in the middle. Needless to say, another attack landed me in the ER and they did an ultrasound and diagnosed me with gall-sludge. They scheduled to take my gallbladder out and did. Pain went away.
1	An experience that I can think of which demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was my ability to successfully act on my symptoms when I had appendicitis. I didn't know what was wrong with me at first, but based on symptoms I'd heard of, plus knowing that I'm supposed to go to the hospital if I'm vomiting so much I can't keep liquids down, I suspected that I had appendicitis. This turned out to be correct when I got to the hospital and had to have an operation. 
1	At one point in my life I was considered obese. The weight gain had happened quickly and with no apparent change to my lifestyle in terms of exercise or diet. I went to the doctor because I assumed it could be a hyperthyroid issue. 
1	I took a class for EMT basic training and passed with flying colors. Some of the things I learned were how first responders react (secure the scene, ABC - airway, breathing, circulation). Also learned to how to give oxygen, check blood glucose, among other things.
1	On multiple occasions I have had to accompany family members to either the ER or a doctors appointment. Since I was a caregiver to my great grandmother who had dementia, I had to speak on her behalf about all her medical and health issues.
-1	A lot of it was math, as I work with math a lot. For myself going through a high risk pregnancy I had to be careful of my diet and exercise. Also my mental health and what kind of anti depressants I have to take and the side effects.
1	I graduated from Oregon State University with a Bachelor's degree in General Science - focusing on pharmacology. I have taken 1 year of health classes, 1 year of chemistry, 1 year of organic chemistry, 1 year of human anatomy and physiology, and one term on animal physiology. 
-1	When taking my daughter to the hospital because she was sick. I was pretty sure she had the flu, and I turned out to be right. 
1	In high school one of my friends said he felt bad. He got up to walk down the hall and passed out. He was sweating and in a sort of daze. Knowing that he had diabetes I grabbed a piece of candy out of my purse and shoved it in his mouth. This perked him up enough to help him get to the nurses station and get his sugar levels sorted out. It had dropped insanely low. 
-1	my brother almost died from kidney failure 4 years ago. me and my mom read the medical reports several times and thats how i learned to understand medical and it expanded my medical knowledge.
1	In my undergraduate years at college i did a presentation over a chronic illness that my mother had that lasted for 15 minutes describing the effects of the disease as well as what caused it and how it was treated
1	I have been diagnosed with IBS.   I participated with my doctors for over a year narrowing down the possibilities for my symptoms finally to that of IBS.  The diagnoses came after multiple tests and appointments requiring me to listen to the doctors and interpret the results of testing with them.
1	I delivered a sternum rub to an incapacitated passed out friend after they'd had far too much alcohol to consume in order to wake them up and make sure the were ok.
1	My husband has a very complicated medical situation that involves PTSD, TBI and other ailments from a car accident. I have had to help him interpret medical information, and doctors notes.
1	Two of my sons are on the autism spectrum. I have had to learn a lot through the years on how to raise them and help them the best way I can. I have a lot of family and friends who refer people they know to me when they first find out that their son or daughter is also diagnosed. It is one area I feel highly knowledgeable in without ever having gone to school for it. I once was at the pediatrician and the doctor asked if I would be okay going to the next room over to talk to a mom who had just found out about her son. They thought it might be helpful for me to come in as an experienced mom in this matter. I really enjoyed it and the mom seemed to leave feeling at least somewhat better about the future.
1	When I was hiking one time, I fell and injured my leg. I knew what I needed to do to be able to perform first aid and get myself back to my home.
1	I had a brain tumor.  I had to learn how to take my medication, about surgery, recovery, rehab, physical therapy, etc.
-1	I have been working in the medical field for over 12 years. Also,  I have taken college courses which describes medical issues in detail. The issues given were more the line of using your maths skills to complete.
-1	MY DAUGHTER WAS NOT EATING, STOMACH PAIN, AND NOT HERSELF.  I MADE HER GO TO THE DOCTOR AND SHE WAS DIAGNOSED WITH AN ULCER.
1	I had the flu and was feeling very bad. .I went to the drug store and got the medicine and treated myself The flu cleared up 
1	Going through a complicated pregnancy, I had to do a lot of research as to what was causing my symptoms and if they were normal/treatable. I had to have a lot of conversations with my doctor to find the right balance.
1	I generally have knowledge of the common cold, flu, stomach pain, etc., so I've been able to guide my healing habits as well as give advice to others.
-1	My eyes were feeling really dry, itchy and irritated.  Before I went to the eye doctor, I checked my symptoms online and thought I might have dry eye and blepharitis.  When I went to my eye appt., I was diagnosed with dry eye and blepharitis.  So I guess I am able to figure out what my symptoms mean and be right about it. 
1	My stepson has been diagnosed with ADHD and his mother is pushing for anxiety and bipolar treatments.  I have had to educate myself on the diagnoses, medication, and alternative options to advocate for  him.
1	When I was still in high school I originally thought I had a sore throat. After a few days of taking over the counter cough medicine I felt that it was something more than just a sore throat because it was getting harder to swallow. I went to the doctor to have it checked on and found out that the nodes in my neck were infected and filling with puss and if it had gone untreated they would have caused serious issues that could lead to death.
1	I have some previous experience working in a health-related field. I also have Bipolar Disorder, Generalized Anxiety Disorder, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, and generally have seen quite a few doctors many times.
-1	A few years back I was having pain in my right side. I have know a few people who have had the same issue and it was their appendix. So after going to the doctor and having a ct scan the doctor said I needed to have me appendix removed 
-1	It just seems like a lot of magh I guess Im not sure But it just seems like you have to have a good melt knowledge of math and your fun
-1	when i had a enlarged cyst in my neck and i had to go to the hospital to have it drained and biopsied.
1	My husband had become very mean to me.   This is really unlike him.  So I brought him to the doctor, who said everything was fine.   His behavior continued, so I brought him to the ER and insisted he be checked over.  After blood and urine was drawn, come to find out he was septic. 
1	When I was in the hospital I was able to completely understand what was going on, what the readings on the machines meant, what the doctors and nurses were talking about and how the medications would help. 
-1	I was diagnosed with severe vitamin b12 deficiency 8 months ago and my neurologist only wanted to give me shots 1x a month - after doing extensive research online and by calling other doctors and talking it over with my primary doctor I insisted the shots be at least 1x a week - my symptoms started to get a little better quicker then the 1x a month shots did
-1	One of my coworkers had an important meeting later in the day and was anxious about it. Around lunch time she started to say her chest was tightening and that she was having a heart attack. She was shaking, sweating, and breathing quickly. I told her to focus on taking slower, deeper breaths and that it wasn't a heart attack it was a panic attack. After about a minute she was in a calmer state, her chest wasn't as tight, and she was breathing slower.
1	I studied nursing. I was able to help my dad through his cancer. I did a lot of research and asked a lot of questions about his specific illness and therapy. I was able to help him with side effects of his treatment
-1	I have had fertility issues because of increased NK cells, more than 5 years and visited 4 doctors, nobody of them told me how to reduce the level of the cells which block the possibility for implantation. Then I found a holistic doctor doctor who recommended change in the food diet and test for food intolerance, my ob-gyn doctor started laughing at this and said this is silly. But I did everything my holistic doctor told to me, I even started core gymnanstics and acupuncture and 7 months later I was pregnant with my first child, so I read tons of books, blogs, articled, I tried a lot of things and succeed.
1	 When my daughter was 9 months old she had a serious infection. I repeatedly brought her to the pediatrician and emergency room before it was finally diagnosed. Only after a doctor was convinced that her white blood count needed to be checked was the infection clear to the medical professionals. I needed to be insistent. I also needed to be able to accurately administer her pain meds and antibiotics once we were discharged from the hospital.. 
1	My close friend fell ill, and I was with him. I helped him navigate his serious illness by doing research while he was mostly incapacitated.
1	I had been told by an Orthopedic surgeon that I had three bulging discs.  I tried taking Cortisone injections in my back.  They did not work to relieve the pain.  The next form of action to take would be surgery.  I question other health officials about the results of these surgeries.  I was told that I most likely will have to go back in later and have additional surgeries. I had read about Chiropractors and what they were able to do for people with back pain.  My general practitioner is an O.D..  He said that I did my homework and should follow through with my decision to seek a Chiropractor.  I have been pain free since seeing one.  
1	During a pregnancy I was diagnosed with gestational diabetes. Due to my knowledge of food label reading and general healthy eating I was able to regulate my blood sugar with a healthy diet throughout my pregnancy.
-1	The first time I experience vertigo was beginning of 2013. I was doing my homework and eating at the same time. All of a sudden, I started hearing sound like radio frequency on my right ear, and felt everything around me was spinning. I felt nausea. I could not stand up. I had to hold something as if I was moving around too. I went to the hospital, but all they could tell me was I had vertigo. I was so desperate because that ringing sound never stop even now as I typing this. I started looking online everywhere for a treatment, but it is hopeless. I went to different doctors several times a month to see if they can heal me, but none was able to help me. I am desperate. This has caused everything around me up side down. 
1	Im not great at health things. I just have a liking for math and if a medical issue equates to a math problem, I can usually figure it out. Percentages and chances are math equations. 
1	My mother went through a lot of health issues when I was younger. This led to doctors visits and specialist appointments for a lot of my life. She has still not been officially diagnosed with anything. This has helped me understand health and medical knowledge a bit better. 
1	I worked with an elderly gentleman providing in home care. I noticed his labored breathing, blue lips and gray skin one morning and informed his daughter that he really needed to visit the emergency room. She disagreed. an hour later he had a heart attack and passed away in my arms. 
1	I was able to figure out which of my medicines were interecting negatively to cause the deathlike lethargy I was having. 
-1	I know my best because I read that carefully and I'm a person that like to have knowledge. I put all my effort in this survey to try to help myself learn more and to help you guys.
-1	If I understand the question correctly when I suffered the emergency.  I don't know if it qualifys knowledge of medical issues but I experienced like I said earlier chest pain and couldn't breath.  I ignored the symptoms because it was just a little chest pain at first but the following days breathing became difficult.  When I guess I reached my tolerance point I guess I dialed 911.  
1	"I don't think there is one great experience that demonstrated my personal knowledge of health issues.  I guess one experience would be that I regularly get a blood screening on an annual basis to stay in the know about anything that may be wrong health wise and it always comes back with flying colors - all blood screening ""things"" in the green."
1	I had a mastectomy becuase of breast cancer. I don't know if it demonstrated my knowledge, but it did improve it.  I had to look up so many test results and what they meant, not to mention aftercare from the surgery.
-1	A lot of my knowledge has come from doctor visits, television commercials, articles in magazines, asking questions to people, and general curiosity.
1	I talk on a daily basis with my friend, who is a nephrologist. he tells me stories (good and bad) about his profession, his practice and his career. This has helped my general knowledge of medicine considerably and he even occasionally asks for my general opinion / validation.
-1	I have a vascular hemagioma (Port Wine Stain) under my eye, and I know why laser surgery is effective and what the best settings are. This has been beneficial because I can talk to my dermatologist about what would benefit me the most.
1	When I was younger I had a terrible ear ache. I did not feel sick however and thought it could be something else. I went online and found that an infected tooth could cause an ear ache. I ended up needing to have root canal on the very back molar in my mouth. 
1	I worked as a Certified Nurse Assistant for eight years and I currently work as a Therapist within the psychiatric and addiction field for the past 20 years. 
1	When my daughter injured her leg.  She dislocated her knee and we had to understand the different ligaments that were surrounding the knee.  I knew what they were.
1	When I was in the hospital for an injury to my leg.  I had a wound vac attached to my leg, and I had to change the dressings that were inside my leg by myself.  Then when I went home a week later, I had to change the internal dressings as well, but with no vac.
1	My mother is a registered nurse so I learned about health and medical issues from her. I also gained knowledge when my family members were having health or medical issues. 
1	When my Grandma was having an issue with her blood pressure (low, fainting) and my other family members were rushing around trying to find ways to get her to be responsive, I knew enough that she should be placed flat on the ground (an incline would've been better but wasn't available) with her knees up and held up and feet flat on the floor. This would raise her blood pressure, and in a few moments she became responsive. We still called 911, but she was responsive and alert for it, rather than having a dangerously low blood pressure.
1	I had blood tests done and found out that I had hypothyroidism, but when I went to an endocrinologist about it she dismissed my symptoms and concerns. I had to advocate on my own behalf and tell her why all of my symptoms match with hypothyroidism
-1	I have been taken care of myself for a while. I know how to fill out medical information that pertains to me. If I need help, I can ask the nurse and they will help me fill out that I don't understand.
-1	Throughout my life I have encountered many illnesses and medical issues that I have successfully combated. Over time I have become more knowledgeable regarding medical procedures and how to fill out paperwork pertaining to medical visits. 
1	I am not sure that I have ever had the experience that you are looking for.  Any knowledge that I have of medical issues comes from after talking to either my doctor, or doing research.  I do not think that I have ever simply had knowledge of a medical issue.
-1	I had a room mate that had heart issues, i had to take him to his appointments and explain what was really going on, because he didnt know what to call it. he had high blood pressure and did not know what was really going on. It helped me to know about blood pressure!
1	My daughter needed to have a procedure done. I was already knowledgeable about this from past experience. I was able to explain everything to her in detail. I was able to answer any of her questions or concerns.
-1	I dont really have to much knowledge. just common scense and basic knowledge if things happen. I can tell if i really need to see a doctor or not.
1	I have been certified in first aid and CPR training. Those courses taught be a basic understanding of health issues and howto treat them. 
1	My mother was a nurse, my wife worked on an ambulance crew when I met her, and various other relatives have worked in the medical field for pretty much all my life, so I was subject to various aspects of medicine from an early age onward. Thus I learned (some) medicine through osmosis.
1	I used to have someone that worked for me and had seizures quite often. Knowing to turn him on his side, and help hold his head, helped him several times.
-1	I always tell people the difference in storebrands and the name brands (just fillers), and I also generally inform people not to take tylenol while drinking unless they want liver failure.
-1	When I first got sick I spent a lot of time learning about my disease and when my Dr first talked a lot about it she was impressed with the amount of accurate knowledge I had about it.
1	I started having a sore throat during the week at work. I knew it could be from exercising outdoors, that I needed to clean my fan, I had some type of cold or strep throat. As I weeded out the issues, I knew it had to either be a cold or strep throat. Once it really got sore, I was able to look in the mirror and see that my throat was really red and took myself to the doctor because I knew I had strep throat. I also woke up the next day (because I could not get into the doctor the same day) almost swallowing my uvula every time I swallowed. I was correct I had strep throat. 
1	demonstrated knowledge of medical issues would tend to come from conversations with medical professionals and their either agreement with what i think I know, or the redirection to the correct information.
1	I honestly don't think there's any specific moment in my life where I have demonstrated a knowledge of health or medical issues that would be noteworthy. While I think I have a decent understanding of how to keep myself healthy and the choices I need to make on eating and exercise, beyond that nothing special.
1	My father is a dentist and my mother is an RN.  I was taught to read labels, ask questions and get concrete evidence when evaluating medical decisions.
1	The other day when I was babysitting, I had a feeling that something was wrong with the little boy I was watching. He was feeling very sick and his mom believed it was just a cold. His cough was very bad, mucus cough, a very runny nose, a temperature in the hundreds and no appetite. His temperature started spiking so we took him to the doctor. Sure enough, he had the flu and was required to start taking antibiotics immediately.
1	I've had depression for a good portion of my life. Since there is constant research in this area i keep with with the new medications and read about how they could help me and then i consult with my doctor on if any may reduce the potential from side affects from what i currently take and do a better job then my current medications regeime 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my blood pressure went up, my face and limbs were very swollen, and I was pregnant with my 3rd child. When I called the midwife, I requested to be transferred to the hospital because I thought I had preeclampsia. Upon testing, the staff found that I did in fact have preeclampsia.
1	Someone was saying they were guaranteed not to get the flu since they'd had the flu vaccine. I had to explain that having the flu vaccine could reduce the probably of getting the flu significantly, but they could not say they were never going to get the flu. It would be less likely, but could still happen.
1	My husband is a disabled veteran, and his neurologist is a foreign medical graduate who can barely speak English. I have to point out mistakes he made in reporting my husband's responses just about every time he sees this doctor.
1	There was a situation when I developed some issues with my neck and things became misaligned.  I went to different specialists to improve this area.  I finished a course of treatment with doctors from three different fields, and learned to manage the condition.
1	I am an RN with 16 years of experience.  Before I went to college, I worked at a retirement home in high school.  I learned a lot from elderly people, and they would ask me questions about their medication and how to fill out paperwork.
-1	Taking ibuprofen for teeth ache pain. Over the counter medicines make it easy to calm immediate health problems until I can go see a doctor for a diagnosis.
1	I don't know that such an experience exists as I have very little knowledge of health or medical issues, I only know when I feel something is wrong with my body. An example would be that once I had sudden onset shortness of breath and I knew that was abnormal so instead of waiting to go the doctor, I went immediately and was diagnosed with a massive pulmonary embolism. 
-1	I was at home, alone, eating soup when I tried to swallow a lentil, but it got caught in my throat. I realized that I was not able to get it to go down and I could  feel it in my throat. I drove to the local fire station and the firefighters took me to the local hospital. After several hours, and a few tests, the attending doctor said there was nothing there. I was admitted, however, and the specialist for stomach problems listened to my story, and did a balloon endoscopy in the late evening. Sure enough, he found the lentil. 
1	I walked into my brother in laws home and took his blood pressure, as he said he wasn't feeling good.  His blood pressure was 190/110.  I immediately called for an ambulance.
1	I had once pulled a muscle in my chest just above my heart. I knew the pain and location and remembered it quite well. I visited the doctor and he informed me it was a pulled muscle. Years later, I had a friend who one time who pulled the same muscle in the yard but he was thinking he was having a heart attack. He was panicking in fear but I calmed him down and told him to let me take a look. I placed two fingers and a thumb on the location of his chest and pushed hard. It put him in even more pain which told me he pulled the same muscle as I did and it relaxed him and made him feel at ease. That was a time in which I was able to help calm a worrying friend and demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues.
1	When a relative was ill (terminally ill, as it turned out) I attended doctors appointments with the (surviving) spouse and help to explain what had been said, what options were presented, and what the likely outcome would be in each option.
1	I am the caregiver for my elderly mother. She recently had lab results that showed a low sodium level. Her primary care doctor decreased her water pill to every other day. Then my mother went to her cardiologist and after an echocardiogram, he told my mother to take the water pill every other day.  Even though her doctors are in the same group, the cardiologist had not looked at her recent lab reports and her primary care physician's recommendations.  I called her PCP's office and spoke to her nurse and explained the situation.  I requested her PCP call the cardiologist and consult about her lab reports.  She did call him and together they came up with a solution to the problem.
1	Family members have had an assortment of medical issues.  Medical segments on various TV channels are sought for additional learning.  Some of the best segments are part of a regular series on DW, a German network with English broadcast.
1	I figured out what to do when I got hit in the eye with a baseball. Ice was put on it, along with a tight bandage to stop the bleeding.  Then, heading to the hospital to be sure.
1	I have actively participated in medical conferences and do biomedical research as a career. I have written a grant proposal on the role of pharmacogenomics in treatment for preterm birth and regularly read medical journals. 
1	My mother has several health issues (along with being a bit of a hypochondriac) and I have been to several doctor appointments with her to manage her paperwork and explain things she doesn't understand. 
1	I have had four children.  I feel like I am a specialist in pregnancy.  I am also an elementary teacher, so I also feel like I am a nurse most days.
1	I rolled my ankle pretty badly during a soccer game. I figured I might as well go to the doctor even if I knew they would just tel me to ice it and stay off it as much as possible and then give me some pills like they did before. I went in and they did the exact same thing they did the last 2 times. X-ray on my ankle, then gave me crutches and the best way to ice it.
1	I was a boy scout, and played football through college.  I have seen lots of cuts, broken fingers, dislocations and I have been under the knife for knee and ankle surgery.   I have general knowledge of medical issues. 
1	A few years ago I determined that I was feeling really lousy and that the reason was that I had gotten overweight and didn't exercise enough. I wound up losing 30 pound in 2 months and felt great. Not only did I do the physical work required but I studied a lot about diet and timing of exercise to maximize the benefit.
1	Knowing that if I had a basic gold antibiotics  would do nothing for me since colds are a virus not a bacteria .
1	Once I was visiting a parent who just had surgery. They were still waiting to be seen by the doctor post-operatively. I was noticed that the partial oxygen on the monitor to be low (in the 80s), so I called a nurse, who then called for oxygen. The oxygen levels came up and everything was deemed fine. 
-1	Someone I knew, had a stroke and didn't realize that is what was going on. I looked up all the symptoms and realized that the person that was suffering from were very valid. I was able to help someone from having any more damage to their body. 
-1	I went to the doctor for a urinary tract infection. I usually try to fight it off on my own with fluids like cranberry juice. When I wait it turns into a kidney infection. This last time I didn't wait. So I was able to say with confidence to the Dr that it was just a UTI instead of a kidney infection.
1	I have had to help both my parents through major health issues.  I also have three of my own children who have had a variety of childhood illnesses and injuries. These experiences have helped me to feel more confident in my knowlege of health and medical issues.  
1	When my grandmother was diagnosed with a glioblastoma, I was always present at medical visits to translate what the doctors would say about required medications, side effects, test results, etc. to my family members and to take care of her.
1	My dad was diagnosed with lung cancer and I was the one to take him to his appointments and procedures . He was in his 80 so I was the one to ask questions, take notes and help decide on treatment.  
-1	I was able to help my sister understand her RH- status while pregnant and what it meant for her baby. I was RH- with my first child, and I had read up a lot on it. I actually have a very rare blood type that switches from O- to O+. 
1	I need to decide when to take my husband to the hospital when he had appendicitis.  I forced him to go when I felt his stomach and it was swollen in the same spot they always show when describing appendicitis. 
1	I recently was on a flight to Philadelphia when the very pregnant woman in the aisle across from me tried to stand up and fainted, ending up in the aisle. I put my jacket under her head, loosened her coat and took her pulse which was slightly fast. I saw no signs of contractions in her belly and chalked the episode up to being too warm, possible dehydration and a drop in her blood pressure when she stood up too quickly. After a few moments she came to and after a drink of water, she was able to return to her seat and comfortably finish the flight.
1	I went to get a blood screening and the doctor talked me through what needed to be done, however I already knew most of the procedure and what would be done with the blood, being put in a centrifuge to separate it and test the different parts.
1	When my wife was diagnosed with breast cancer. You go thru life experiencing thehighs, lows. The good days after chemo, the bad days. The hours you spen itting with your wife thru chemo process.
-1	I once dated someone who had the flu and was about to develop pneumonia. He smoked cigarettes. I informed him of how his lungs worked and that he was paralyzing the scillia in his lungs and that's why he couldn't expel a lot of the mucus or phlegmn that was building up in his lungs. I told him that if he stopped smoking they would start to work again.
1	My aunt asks me a fair amount of the time where an organ is located and what are some common functions of that organ. Also as a student I took anatomy and physiology 1 and 2 with lab. I passed all four classes with A's and 1 B, I also took microbiology with the lab which I also passed with A's. My older brother sometimes says silly things like vaccines are not a good thing, and I have to explain to him that vaccines are actually lifesavers. Vaccines predispose us to a pathogen in a very reduced amount that It will not harm us, but It will trigger an immune response in which our immune system will have created memory t cells. So in the future if we come into contact of the pathogen It can be dealt with because of our immune systems memory cells. We have thus created a way to expose ourselves to a pathogen of a very reduced strength in order to prepare us for the same pathogen when it attacks us with full strength. 
1	I don't think that I have a good understanding of medical issues, but through nutrition education in college feel that I have a solid grasp of health issues, meaning I know how to maintain my health. I exercise almost every day and eat a healthful, balanced diet. I monitor my health and rarely get sick.
1	I kept having headaches and I was thinking it was caffeine withdraws. Then I realized that the caffeine was making me dehydrated and that is where the headache was coming from.
1	I recently worked with a colleague who had a seizure while at work. I was able to know to help ease her to the floor and protect her head by putting a sweatshirt near the side of her that was close to the wall. I called the paramedics and was able to tell them when the seizure started and how long it had lasted. 
1	Around two years ago I received lab work that my blood pressure was on the higher end. I consulted with my physician and decided to reduce sodium intake and exercise more often. A year later for my next check up my levels had fallen back into normal range.
1	I am trained as a medical assistant so I have to be educated on many health facts and matters. I also am currently majoring in public health.
1	I had a recent Ha1c of 15.3 and given several oral medications to control blood glucose, cholesterol, and blood pressure.I told my doctor that I would like to change my lifestyle and return in three months. I was not told of diet alternatives in combination with exercise. I began a strict diet regimen and exercise program reducing my Ha1c to 5.8 in three months without medication. Reducing my blood glucose also corrected other stated problems.
1	Lots of medical appointments and lots of ads on tv and interest in the medical field. Good and bad doctors and doing my own research helps. 
1	Well my knowledge is pretty basic. When I went in to premature labor with my son, I thought that something like that could be avoided easily. It wasn't and my son came 3 months early. So I guess that demonstrates that my knowledge isn't that great.
-1	After I applied for my current job, I had an interview with my current boss. She told me there were three candidates that she was considering but she chose me because of medical background. She also said I was knowledgeable about the things she asked me and that she felt like I'd be a good fit at her medical establishment. Two years later, I'm still here so I'm guessing I demonstrated a knowledge of health or medical issues correctly. 
1	I have dealt with infertility for most of my adult life and the struggle to have a child had made me educate myself not only into what is happening inside my own body, but into what medical science can do to assist me in having my own child.
1	When I got a concussion, I knew the symptoms to look for and when to go to the emergency room. I had enough medical knowledge about concussions to know when to seek help.
-1	When I first graduated college I worked in a Hospital  in the Chemistry Lab performing lab test. I did hematology and chemistries on human blood.
1	Earlier this year, I accurately diagnosed my acute bronchitis. I have had it frequently enough over my life to understand the barking cough and wheezing, and when I told the doctor, she said I was right on the money. It was viral, so there was nothing I could do except stay hydrated.
1	My wife has a high risk of breast cancer due to family incidence and the tissue in her breasts, so we have done a lot of research into the issue and what she can do too improve her chances of not getting the cancer.
1	I worked as a medical scribe in an orthopedic office and demonstrated a proficient knowledge of the medical conditions that were regularly treated. 
1	Recently patient of mine asked me about a thickened, reddened, painful patch of skin on her abdomen.  I told her to make sure she showed her doctor because she may need antibiotics as it looked like cellulitis.  It was.
1	well, as far as medical issues goes, I have always had an interest in first aid and became a youth teacher in the subject for most of my teen years in the Boy Scouts.  I've also received a certificate (after a class a couple years ago) for CPR at my work and am one of a few that can handle the dethibulater (?) at work.
1	I developed a skin rash.  I was aware of shingles and did some online research to determine that is likely what I had.  This allowed me to get into see my doctor quickly and get on meds to minimize the spread and pain.
-1	I have high triglycerides, my doctor wants me on statins.  I also drink alot, so the high triglycerides are probably from alcohol.  Statins wouldn't  help the underlying problem, which is my drinking. 
-1	When I had an abnormal skin growth on my back and when I determined it was a boil and the growth had gone back to normal.
1	An experience I had was when my mother in law died of cancer a few months ago.  I understood what cancer in the pancreas meant and how life-threatening it is.  I understood what treatment like radiation and chemotherapy would mean to her body, and the toll it would take on the family.
-1	It was when I had a collapsed long and had to go to the emergency room.  They asked me what I was doing previously and I described my workout to them and why I was doing certain exercises as that is why they believed the collapsed lung happened.
-1	I went to a doctor because i have been experiencing a lot of symptoms that showed that I have PCOS. I did my research, so when I went to the doctor to be diagnosed, I told her that I may have PCOS and she told me that I was most probably right. And I was.
1	I NEARLY FAINTED ONCE WHEN I HAD TAKEN MY DAUGHTER TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM.  I HAD BEEN EXPOSED TO THE FLU AND HAD NOT EATEN BECAUSE OF HAVING TO RUSH HER TO THE HOSPITAL.  AFTER BEING FORCED TO HAVE AN EKG AND BLOOD WORK BY THE ER DOCTOR AND RUNNING UP A BILL, WHILE TELLING THEM THERE WAS NOTHING WRONG EXCEPT I WAS PROBABLY GETTING THE FLU AND HAD NOT EATEN.  I LEFT THE HOSPITAL WITH A $1700 ER BILL.  I WENT TO AN ACUTE CARE FACILITY THE NEXT DAY AND YES, I HAD THE FLU.  WAS TOLD TO GO HOME AND GO TO BED.
-1	I have a family member who is diagnosed with borderline diabetes. She was seen by her doctor and as a result of her blood sugar being tested during a routine physical checkup. She was prescribed a preventive diabetes medication and instructed by her doctor to decrease certain foods from her diet such as, carbohydrates and foods containing sugar, as following these directions should improve her condition.
1	Having a child allows me a lot of opportunities to demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues.  When a child cannot talk you have to go strictly off of exhibited symptoms and medical knowledge.  I have had to determine if his discontent was irritation, hunger, or illness.
1	i have had lower back problems for a number of years. my roommate recently hurt his back. he told me the stretches and exercises he was doing were not helping - i recommended some of what i do to maintain my back, and within a few days he was already beginning to feel better. 
1	Whenever one of my family got sick, I usually know how to act in this situation for the best recovery and low cost.
-1	My mother has cancer so I have helped her a lot and have been there caring for her for 5 years. You learn a lot when someone is sick.
1	I have had a chronic illness for many years and have requested most of my lab work. While my doctors still review my results, they usually give them directly to me. 
1	I worked at a clothing store when i was younger. One of my customers felt lite headed and needed to sit down. She felt like she was not able to continue shopping. I asked her, if she had eaten. She said no and her sugar might be low. I always kept peppermints, so I gave her one. While she sat eating the peppermint I went and bought crackers. This made her feel better and she was able to leave soon after.
-1	Well I have a certification in medical transcription and just other things by asking questions from those that have gone thru nursing school or looking it up myself.
1	I just did a lot of words equations, made me feel like I was back in the 4th grade. I didn't really demonstrate any prior knowledge.
1	I've had two heart procedures, both times involved having a stent put in and extensive research on how to change my diet and lifestyle in order to live a longer life.
-1	Before I was diagnosed with Achalasia the doctors kept insisting it was all in my head and that I was just suffering from Bulimia because I was overweight. After much research into Bulimia I realized there was no chance that was my problem because I was not able to binge eat, I couldn't eat more than 5 bites of something before regurgitating food on some days as the disease progressed. I did the research and approached doctors about the possibility of something else being wrong with me and they all ignored me. After seeing several specialists one finally listened to me and agreed the previous diagnoses were completely inaccurate. 
-1	I am very into the natural way of living. I see a guy who is into Ayurvedic healing and he has helped grow my knowledge as to what exactly happens in your body. Most issues start in the gut. So I guess I demonstrate my knowledge when I am dealing with my own health concerns.
1	I have worked in the health research and health technology fields. I worked in health research and as a contractor for the FDA.
1	I have quite a few medical issues. I have been diagnosed with PCOS and Hashimotos.  I do a lot of my own research.  I was also a Certified Nurse Assistant for a few years.
-1	When I was overweight I had to become more aware of what I was putting into my body. I began to count calories and eat less carbs. I also began to exercise more and drink more water. 
-1	I have demonstrated to my DO that I was paying attention to my cholesterol results when I was able to correct him on what my past 3 tests were using the health networks website.
1	i have a basic knowledge of health issues and medical terms. Mostly gleaned from tv shows and friends and family who are in the medical field 
1	I'm a long term kidney transplant survivor (20 years this year) and I have always felt confident understanding medical terminology. Now I'm not sure about that thought process!
-1	When I was going to college. I went to school for a degree in the health care field. I think that helped my general health/medical knowledge.
1	When I had an infection and went to see my doctor, he told me what I had and what to take to treat it.  Once I got my prescription filled, I followed the instructions with the medication, being careful not to take it on a an empty stomach or with alcohol so that I would not suffer from adverse side effects and become ill.  
1	My oldest daughter from my first marriage had allergic asthma. 20 years later, my son fro my second marriage had the same diagnosis. I was able to converse with the doctor in a relatively knowledgeable fashion about the condition 
1	My father-in-law has a lot of health issues but is fairly stable most of the time. He started acting strange - not sleeping, smoking more frequently. I told my husband to get him to the doctor before he died - turns out he had renal failure and would have died if a few more hours had passed. I just noticed a change in behavior and knew something was very wrong. 
1	Studying in school has provided a good level of knowledge regarding health and medical issues.  In addition I have been around other people in the health field.
1	I was having heart palpitations about ten years ago after eating a ton of sugar and drinking way too much alcohol, eating too much general crap, and being sedentary. I recognized immediately that something was wrong, I knew the cause, and went to the doctor and started working out.
-1	My son had symptoms of a high fever, sore throat and lethargy.  I knew to take him to the doctor to get checked out because he possibly had tonsillitis and would need to have antibiotics.
1	I took care of my mother for 5 years.  Had to learn a lot. Most of it was basics about mobility, dementia, heart disease, dehydration, her medications.  A lot of info, but I am far from expert.
1	Knowing how to diagnose myself with bronchial issues and the symptoms that followed. I don't think I really have had the opportunity to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	I am bipolar and every time I get a new pdoc I give them all the details of my disease. When I was diagnosed, how long I've been on meds etc...  I also tell them the dosages that work best for me.
1	A friend of mine had a condition arise that I had had in the past. He was a bit concerned and worried. I was able to tell him exactly what to do and how long it would take to heal.
1	When my child was diagnosed with certain food allergies, I made sure I am aware of the symptoms myself. I made sure I have her medication with us all the time wherever we go. Knowing what to do helps a lot in these situations.
1	It is a known fact that bananas are a great pre and post workout food in order to prevent injuries and cramps from strenuous exercise
1	I once had to call an ambulance because a friend of mine was badly injured, enough that I knew they needed immediate medical attention.
1	When I was under 18, I was about 15 pounds overweight and I had high blood pressure. I decided to lose the extra pounds through diet and exercise and in turn lowered my blood pressure to a healthy level.
1	My friend had a numbness in his little finger from playing bass. I had this condition before and explained to him that he had probably hit his elbow, and that the numbness could last for a while, and he should do stretches to alleviate the nerve damage. 
1	My husband had a stroke in our hotel room when he was only 39. My knowledge of the stroke sympoms allowed my to realize what was happening and seek medical help immmediately. When I got to the hospital I relayed this information and tha allowed us to get the immediate attention that was needed to prevent further damage to his brain.
-1	When someone in my family was seriously injured in an accident I was able to give some information to my family about what was going on. 
-1	I had to have a c-section for a breech baby. I was able to understand what the procedure would be like and knew the recovery plan. I researched the medical issue in depth prior to the actual surgery.
1	I took human anatomy and the lab and I got a 93 and an 80 on the finals. Im not really involved in health or medicine so that's the extent of my experience with it. 
1	I was adamant about my grandmother not taking a certain blood thinner to an ER doctor. He prescribed it anyway despite my objections.  He was later suspended when her primary called the next day.
-1	I was presented with some issues as to why I was developing UTI's, for a man it is not common and the doctor wanted to run a bunch of test on my prostate. I decided to not have a few until we got the results of the first set.
1	I took a CPR class and had to use my skills one night my husband and I were out to dinner and a woman at a near by table passed out and fell to the ground.
1	I was having blisters showing up on my skin one day. Even after washing they would not go away. I knew that it was probably a staph infection. I decided to go to a doctor about it and they didn't have to give an explanation because of my familiarity with the diagnosis. 
1	When my son was hospitalized, I was able to understand what the doctors were talking about as far as anatomy and body function. This helped me to get a good idea of what exactly was happening with my son and what needed to be done to help. I honestly didn't realize I knew as much as I did until I started talking with them. There were still plenty of things I didn't understand but those blanks were much easier to fil because of my basic understanding. 
1	My mother had a heart attack and while still in the hospital, she was almost given medication that would have interacted negatively with medication she was already taking. I caught the mishap before she was given the medication that would have interacted negatively. I had done research on the medications she was receiving in addition to speaking with the medical staff treating her. 
-1	4 years ago, I fell off a ladder in my garage and broke my hip in four places. I could not get up off the floor, at all. I had to drag myself out of the garage, accross my patio and into my house. This told me my hip was broken.
-1	I was sick for a long time and no one knew why . Mood swings and exhuastion, heart palpitations and tired all the time The doctor kept saying it was emotional. Turns out I have an autoimmune thyroid disorder 
1	I remember when I had to take medication for my anxiety, my doctor told me that it was going to reduce my issue significantly. He told me it would reduce it with at least 60%, I knew it was going to help a lot.
-1	When I self-diagnosed my flu symptoms.  I started to feel bad when I thought I had a normal cold, and I was experiencing worse symptoms like dizziness and weakness.  I figured it had to be the flu based on the information I read on the internet some years earlier.
-1	I worked as a CNA for a couple years. To do that, I had to take a few medical classes. I have also taken some classes concerning health for my BA degree. Together, with being a mom, I have learned some things about health.
1	I had to give CPR to someone and had to recall the training that I had previously received in order to remember how to do it safely. 
-1	I have had training as a first responder (advanced augmented first aid) when I was on a volunteer fire department for two years. And to connect better with people I took courses in biology.
1	I help my grandmother manage her diabetes and medications.  I do this by advocating for her at her doctor's appointments and learning about the best ways and how she needs to be taking all of her medications including her insulin.
-1	My grandfather had a stroke. One day he was just sitting in his chair and appeared to be as he is asleep. My grandmother started calling to him and he would not answer. Everyone in my house thought he was just playing some joke but i felt something was off. So i told them to call an ambulance because something is wrong. 
1	I was given a prescription and I started to have tingling in my arms. It was very strange, so I thought it might be due to the prescription.   I reread the prescription information and found that while it was a rare occurrence, that could be a side effect and to call my doctor.  I called and explained and they told me to discontinue use of the prescription.
-1	Just being alive and having a huge family. I have about 50 family members and we are very close. They share their health concerms wwith me because most are genetic problems.
1	My mother has celiac disease, so I have become very careful to ensure that when cooking for her, or arranging a family meal at a restaurant that food is prepared carefully to prevent gluten contamination. It has also made me more aware of product ingredients and labelling. 
1	I have had many sprains in my life due to participating in athletics. I have also had pulls and even broken bones. My ability to diagnose what each injury was is a testament to my knowledge of these medical issues. 
1	My father had stents put in due to blockage in his arteries that almost caused a heart attack.  I had learned all about stents, arteries, blockage etc after this even occurred.  I had to help my dad take daily pills and check his heart rate and blood pressure to make sure everything was how the doctors wanted it. 
1	I once went to the emergency room for severe stomach pains and I was diagnosed with having gallstones. Because I have had an interest in the way the human body work, I was able to easily understand what gallstones are and how they affect my body. My diagnoses led me to further research the human body so I can fully understand how my body works and what could be the cause for any issue I might have.
-1	I suffer daily with anxiety and depression. When a friend or anyone asks about my opinions on the topic, I feel like I have the experience, since I've been dealing with it my entire life.
-1	I read an article once in a women's magazine which helped me diagnose myself with cystitis. I wasn't sure what I had but the article made me realize there was a very strong possibility that's what I was experiencing and it turned out to be true.
1	I was sick so I looked for medicine in my house and found some by reading the label and seeing that it would make me better and feel better as well. I continued this method with buying stuff if I didn't have it or going to a doctor to tell me what to use if I needed to use something.
1	about 8 years ago i had undergo tests to see if i had contracted the HIV virus (this was after a mishap at work).  i was told the chance of my actually having the disease was something like  .01%.     knowing this didn't stop me from worrying a lot, but the statistics indicated i was virtually in the clear so i always had the statistics to fall back on when i was afraid of the results.
1	I have a child with a life long illness and am responsible for all the contact with Drs, and managing her care. I decide what medicines we are taking not what the Dr might want without doing my own research first. I do review medical journals about her condition. 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issue was when I used the same techniques i learned after my right shoulder surgery and used it to rehabilitate my left shoulder after surgery. This way i didn't have to go to therapy and was able to treat myself. 
1	I used my experience and knowledge from prior medical discussions regarding migraine headaches to research which triggers to avoid and try to find alternative options to bring relief because the prescribed medication was not working for me. This experience has not completely alleviated the headaches, but I do feel that the frequency has been reduced.
1	Can't really say much, except for knowing to take care of myself extra well when I've come down with a sickness like a really bad cold.
-1	I have had many family members with health issues. For example my mother has diabetes and high blood pressure. My grandmother has emphazema, asthma, and other health issues that I have had to learn to treat.
1	My 92 year old mom recently fell on concrete. She had no outward signs of broken bones and was conscious and cognitively astute. There was a tremendous amount of bleeding. I felt it best to call an EMS vehicle to get her to the hospital being that she takes Pradaxa, a blood thinner. 
1	I had never had a urinary tract infection, but I began having unusual symptoms on urination. When I went to the doctor, I suspected that he might test my urine for evidence of infection. He did.
1	I saw an accident once and the guy was having some blood loss from his arm. I knew from my first aid training that stopping the flow of blood coming out was a good first step in a situation like that. I got the guy to hold his arm up to minimize the blood loss and tightened a torn shirt around his arm to help until an ambulance arrived.
1	i suffered from acne for several years.  i had worked with a few different dermatologists and tried many different drugs and topical treatments that were recommended to me with little success.  i did some research and discovered that my acne was most likely related to hormones.  i asked my doctor to switch my birth control, which solved my acne problem.  
-1	I don't have much formal training, just bits and pieces picked up over life. This knowledge came in handy when I fell out of a tree as a teenager. I dislocated my shoulder and it really hurt. First off, I knew I had to stay calm, stopped the bleeding and then proceeded to find help.
1	I have spinal issues. A friend was suffering from an injured lower back. She asked what i thought. Based on her symptoms I told her that she should take an anti inflammatory medication as well as a muscle relaxer and then rest for a couple of days. she went to her doctor and her doctor prescribed her an anti inflammatory drug and a muscle relaxer and told her to rest for a week.
1	i try to analyze the labels of the food to understand the intake and try to ask questions to the medical service provides like doctors and nurses about the complex scenarios which are difficult to understand
1	I was told during an exam that my pulse was very obvious in my abdomen and they suspected I may have an abdominal aortic aneurysm.  I asked if I shouldn't have an ultrasound or other testing done to verify their suspicion.
-1	When I was younger and I first had to read all the information. It was hard to understand the insurance and when I had to read how much meds I had to take. I felt good about how much to take but there was still some areas that I didn't understand.
1	I was able to accurately describe my symptoms in a quick and concise manner while I was experiencing an allergic reaction to a medication I was recently on.
1	I can't really think of a situation.  I haven't had any bad diagnosis.  I usually understand the basics of health things when it comes up.
1	I once had a colleague that was complaining of joint pain and fatigue. I told him he should get checked for hemochromatosis, since those are both symptoms of the disorder. He had Nordic ancestry so I felt he may be at risk. He got the test and he did have hemochromatosis and credited me with getting the correct diagnosis.
1	I can't think of one. I've been very lucky in that way. I realized my wife had an anxiety disorder thanks to a commercial for Paxil. Her symptoms sounded just like the ones on the commercial. 
-1	One time along time ago when I was a little kid I had to go to the doctor for measles and the doctor thought it was chicken pox but I knew it wasn't so I explained what I knew and how I knew it and why so we could get the correct diagnosis. I think knowing and researching some yourself to help self diagnosis is a major help as doctors are human too and may not always have the correct idea based on your description of the symptoms you are experiencing  and could lead to mistakes being made early in the discussion.
1	When my son had eczema, the doctor just wanted to give him steroid cream and told me there's usually no cure. Instead I had him tested for allergies and found he was allergic to tree nuts. Once we eliminated tree nuts from his diet, the eczema disappeared and has never returned.
-1	I was presented with a symptom once and I insisted that it wasn't normal. It turns out that it was strep throat and not just a sore throat, I knew it was different from the second I felt it.
-1	I have PTSD and I read up a lot on the topic with new research and advancements. Doing this I help myself and can also help discuss options with the doctor to see what is best for me and my health. I can also do this with other medical issues. 
1	When my friend was pregnant and was diagnosed with pre-eclampsia I was able to guide her through the process based off when I had it myself. I explained that if blood pressure is elevated, and that if you lay on your left side and it is still elevated, you are at risk for eclampsia and therefore might be induced at 38 weeks like me.
-1	I have been taking care of all my family medical forms, records, doctor visits, etc. That includes my elderly mother who has had many health issues and several surgeries. I filled out all the paperwork, talked to doctors for her and helped her make decisions.
1	Over the past year I've developed headaches and sensations of dizziness seemingly at random. after going to doctor after doctor I landed up at a neurology office. I then learned I have an issue with my spine that causes these symptoms.
-1	I have crohns disease and I have scoliosis and i have been going in and out of doctors since i was 12 years old.
-1	I had to help my supervisor with her thyroid issues.I had to have my thyroid removed and learned a lot about it along the way.She is having problems with hers and might have to have hers removed.
-1	When I go to the doctor and have to fill out the form about myself. I usually have a lot of questions when filling it out.
1	I had to take a first aid class and my dad is a doctor by trade, so when a friend asks whether something needs to go to the hospital I am reasonably confident in my answers
-1	My son was very sick 2 years ago.  He had complications from pneumonia.  He was in and out of the hospital and we switched hospitals when the first one wasnt helping him.  I lost a lot of faith in Doctors after that.
-1	I had a time in my life where i could not see right, i could not walk right, I in general was just having a lot of issues. I found out I had NMO
1	There was a time when I knew I knew how to self diagnose myself medically. I had been having really sharp abdominal pains under my right bottom rib cage area. I looked up all my symptoms I have been having everything and I thought I had gallbladder issues. Well, I ended up going to the ER. After several tests, I turned out to be right. I had to have my gallbladder removed.
1	I had once had really bad cellulitis in my elbow region. At the time nobody knew what it was and thought I got stung by a bug or something. I knew it wasn't that and researched a lot of different possibilities. I knew I was right and I was as I was told I got cellulitis once I got to the ER.
1	"I felt sick as a dog, had sore throat and was exhausted. I went to the doctor's and he said I was fine. I went home and became sicker. I went back to the doctor's and he said I was fine. I went home again and researched my symptoms: Epstein-Barr and strep throat were the results. I marched back to my doctor's office and said, "" I have  the Epstein Barr virus and strep throat--I need antibiotics for the strep throat and a note to be excused from work so that I can rest""--and that's what I finally got from the doctor."
1	Whenever I go to the doctor I prepare ahead of time.  I do what research I can online.  I have hypertension so I take blood pressure medicine, and monitor by blood pressure at home.  I have started exercising and eating a healthier diet.  I keep track of all that I do and go prepared with my notebook to the doctor.
1	I have been getting migraines for years.  I did some research and was disappointed to find that they don't know exactly what causes them and that there is really no cure.  I started taking excedrin regularly.  I also had a facial intense pulsed light ipl treatment that made me have migraines nearly every day.  I went to the chiropracter because I though my posture and neck alignment may be contributing to neck tension and pain.  This could be leading to frequent headaches.  I wanted to continue with the chiropracter but I cannot at this time due to money issues.  I started getting what I believe were intenstinal ulcers from the excedrin, particularly the NSAIDs.  It put me in extreme pain and cramping for days which I could not get rid of.  I went to see an emergency doctor who gave me pills to stop the cramps in my intenstine.  My sister had the same issue a few years later.  I found out my whole family gets migraines at a family reunion.  I started doing more research and found out inflammation could be a cause.  I started taking turmeric supplements for inflammation.  Within a month I had significantly fewer migraines and headaches.  Now I recommend it to all the women I meet who have migraines, many many women do.
-1	my wife had a stomach pain and she started bleeding we thought its normal to bleed a little during pregnancy but later we realised it was a miscarriage and the result showed possible chance of uterine cancer
1	I was hit and run by a car while riding my bike. I had no radial pulse, lost memory, had multiple broken bones, and was 1mm away from being paralyzed. In addition, my lungs were filling with fluid. I learned a lot about the anatomy of my back, my lungs and what a radial pulse was.  I learned the treatment plans for my conditions and what could be done and what could not be done. Previously, I had no experience in these areas. I had to trust the doctors and what literature they provided to educate myself. It was a long recovery with still remaining issues that I continue to seek treatment and get educated about the body and recovery.
-1	My experiences have been to listen to my body, as I'm getting older I realize that if you pay attention to the seasonal, cyclical, and redundant reactions to changes, you will begin to learn your own body better than any other person; you can learn to trust it.
1	I accompanied my mom to get screened for breast cancer and she was given information about what to do to avoid ever having it
1	I had started coughing and had a slight pain in my throat after work one day. The next morning i looked in the back of my throat and lucky me i found some white puss pockets right around my lymph nodes. I immediately identified this as strep and made an appointment with my doctor. 
1	I recently moved and therefore, had no doctor.  I twisted my ankle very badly.  The pain was excruciating and the bruising encompassed my entire foot and went well up my leg.  I didn't really want to pay an ER bill so I took a wait and see attitude.  I felt safe in doing so because I could move my toes a little, and because I did get a little better daily.  I was soon confident that I had no broken bones.  My husband had a 50 percent tendon tear in the past, and knowing what that was like, and how it was treated helped.
-1	I have medical knowledge about asthma and how to care for people with it. I have dealt with having it my whole life.
-1	I had a nose bleed that would not stop. I remembered how a paramedic once told me, in order to stop a nose bleed; you place a gauze under the inner lip and apply some pressure until the bleeding stops. I always thought you lean your head bank until the bleeding stops. It worked like a charm when I did it the medics way.
1	I went through a health care track in college and had two years of specialized school for Medical Technology.  There you learn about hematology, microbiology, chemical biology, etc., which has given me a large understanding of medical fields.  In addition, I work in the healthcare informatics field so I am constantly exposed to these scenarios.
1	When I took a health psychology class I had to be familiar with certain health and medical issues for the class
1	In my mid-20s I began experiencing wheezing and shortness of breath during certain periods of time. I recognized the danger of pulmonary issues and sought medical advice, I was subsequently diagnosed with asthma.
1	I noticed my Father was coughing a lot and wheezing. He seemed to be extra weak as well. I thought something serious was happening to him and he thought that he had the a cold. I convinced him to let me bring him to the ER and he was diagnosed with heart failure and they had to put a stint in one of his arteries.
-1	when i was pregnant and I seemed to have read all the articles, publications and blogs about pregnancy and giving birth.  When it was time i felt pretty calm about the whole process. 
1	An experience I had that showed my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I took my son to the doctor's office. I had remembered reading about certain signs the body gives away that are an indication of other issues during my studying in the medical field. My son was having a high fever and sweating a little and I figured he was teething because he was also drooling. Sure enough, I was correct when I talked to the doctor about it. He told me that I was absolutely right. 
1	My mother was recently treated for breast cancer and just had her third of four chemotherapy sessions. She was initially told that she would not need chemo at all and would just have to do radiation to lower the rate of recurrence after the tumor and a lymph node was removed, and then a month later she had to very quickly reschedule, messing up work and therefore putting her insurance at risk. All of the complaints I've given you so far are incredibly fresh in my mind.
-1	Last year I was diagnosed with diabetes.  I have lowered by A1C from 6.5 to 5.9 all by myself with diet.  I am now conscious of everything I put in my mouth.  I check my blood sugar every morning and 2 hours after a meal that I feel will raise my blood sugar. 
-1	Welp, I'm obviously not very good with the numbers! However, as a bipolar person I have extensive knowledge of my mental illness. I can see when I'm starting to go through cycles and am able to change my behavior accordingly. 
1	My husband has type 2 diabetes so I had to learn how to help him manage it to keep his blood sugar under control.  I had to learn about the condition and also about the signs to look for when his sugar is too high or too low.
1	My wife felt lumps in her breast. From my medical knowledge I knew that the firm nodule tha was easily moved was likely a cyst. The other one had a chance to be malignant so she had a diagnostic mammogram and ultrasound. I could see during the X-rays that the lump was not characteristic of a cancer. Then, during ultrasound I could see the round black hole on the screen indicating all lumps wee cysts. Was able to relieve both me and the wife while we waited for the radiologist to tell us the same thing.
1	When my father was found to need a blood thinner I did the research to understand the different medications he could take along with the side effects.  When I asked the doctor about the different medications, we both agreed on one.
-1	I went to and graduated from nursing school. That's not enough characters, so I'll add that it was a hospital school (they're long gone) so I'm a diploma nurse. I graduated in 1974 and left nursing in 1985.
1	I knew when I was pregnant the first morning after I had conceived because I felt different upon my walk to work the next morning. It seemed as though everything I was used to doing took a lot of extra effort. I kept this to myself for several weeks until I was able to take a test and confirm that my personal diagnose was correct.
-1	When I was pregnant, I would get a little sick to my stomach everyday, not just in the mornings.  By my 3rd pregnancy, I knew exactly what to take everyday to help me feel not so sick everyday.  I also knew certain foods to eat that would help.
1	I had an injured finger amNd after doing some research determined that I had a droppedfinger.  The nurse practitioner just said I dont know what to do for you or what is wrong with your finger.  After waiting 3 weeks to see a specialist, the specialist told me that I had a dropped finger.
-1	My experience of health issues with doctors is that they are only in the profession for money.  Caring and morals seem to go out the window.
-1	I was on a medication prescribed by my doctor.  I got severe constipation with in days of starting the drug.  I looked up the side effects, and saw that constipation was one of them, so I followed up with my doctor for advice.
1	I work in a scientific field and am working to go to medical school. I actively read medical literature and shadow a physician regularly. 
1	when I was a child my mother was going to nursing school and i would always be around when she was studying.
-1	I have hypertension. I know that I have to limit my sodium intake and watch what I eat. I make sure that when I am at someone's house that I keep in mind what it is that they are making that I take into considering the amount of salt used when they are cooking. 
1	I was once over weight. I learned how to lose weight and keep it off by doing research and sticking to a strict diet and exercise regiment. I was able to keep the weight off and have been studying nutrition on a regular basis.
1	I was in the first gulf war. My humvee rolled over a land mine. I was in the air and hit the ground hard. I crawled to the vehicle. My gunner had suffered a leg injury. He was bleeding from lots of shrapnel.  I stopped the bleeding and got him through a rough time until another unit arrived.
1	When I had blood in my stool, I looked up the symptom online and determined I most likely had hemorrhoids.  I went to the doctor anyways because it could have been more serious.  They listened to my description of the problem (I did not change it to match the online symptoms because I didn't really have any pain) and they prescribed me fiber and told me that if it continued or became diahrrea-like to come back immediately.  I took the fiber and shortly after I no longer saw blood in my stool.
1	I really can't think of a situation. I depend on my doctor for info. If I don't know something I seek out resources to help me.
1	Two years ago I had my first UTI. I understood the symptoms as everyone knows the basic symptom of pain while peeing as well as the frequent feeling of having to go to the bathroom. Instead of having to go to the doctors I called the 24 hour nurse service and told them I believed that I had a UTI. I then asked for the antibiotics and after confirming I had the specific symptoms I was approved. I didn't need to go to a doctor for this because I understood the symptoms that I was having 
1	I went to college for five years to become a clinical laboratory scientist. We learned a lot about the different disorders that affect the blood cells and other bodily fluids. We did not learn as much on the symptoms or treatments for all disorders. I feel working in this field now for the past year and seeing the patients in a clinic setting has helped me to learn more and more everyday that I come in to work.  
-1	After years of taking care of my grandmother's medications, when her doctor wanted to ignore her odd behavior, I made it clear in no uncertain terms that her medication could not be the cause of it, and if he started messing with it, her diabetes would become unstable. He didn't listen. Guess what happened to her diabetes? Yeah, listen to the person who has been doing it for years. 
1	My mother or father sometimes ask me side effects of a certain medication (assuming it is not written on the container). I can use an online database to find out information about that medication.
1	I used to have once a year health screening for insurance. they would take blood do blood pressure etc. typically i was able to predict my bp and discussed with administrators of testing what the bp meant
1	The results of an echo-stress test were mixed. The echo portion was negative but there were issues with the stress test. I knew that most likely these issues would be addressed using medications rather than stenting or surgery since the problem was in the smaller arteries.
1	I really don't have much experience with health issues.  i just paid attention in high school health class. Sometimes I read articles online if I feel curious about the subject.
1	This is a weird and difficult question to answer. I went through a period of 6 months where my doctors believed I had early onset rheumatory arthritis. They subjected me to a battery of tests and I learned what each of them did beforehand. I've always understood how to properly administer my medication or follow doctor's orders as well. 
1	When I went to the Emergency Department at UF Shands, the doctor assigned to me was unconvinced that I needed to be admitted. I told him that if he did not admit me and dismissed me, that I would be back the next day due to adrenal crisis. He discharged me and I had to come back the next day. The condition worsened. Asshole.
1	Whenever I visit a new doctor, I have to answer extensive questions about my own medical history, to include information about current prescriptions, family history of health disease and diabetes, and so forth.  In order to answer those questions, I have to understand what I'm being asked about.  
1	Both of my aunts got diagnosed with breast cancer at the same time so we all had to go get tested for the BRACA gene.  This taught me a lot about hereditary cancer and breast cancer. 
1	I have helped my husband when he is worried about his anxiety and depression. I used my knowledge of my own feelings and needs to help him understand if he had the same symptoms as me or not.
1	A few years back I had what I thought was a routine stomach ache from the flu.  After a few days the pain had not subsided and it didn't seem like the same old flu.  Given the location of the pain and my knowledge from popular culture I thought maybe it could be appendicitis.  I went in and I was correct.  It was removed immediately. 
1	I have costochondritis, inflammation of the rib cage. I spent a year feeling really horrible and not knowing what the problem was. I started suffering from very bad health anxiety, went to the ER a few times thinking that I was having a heart attack or dying. My doctor told me I had anxiety but I knew it was something physical and the pain was not in my head. After almost a year of researching and trying everything to get better, I learned about costochondritis and finally got a diagnosis. 
1	Well about 10 years ago I experienced a staph infection on my leg that needed to be treated.  At the time I the cost to have it treated was well beyond my means as I was between jobs and my co-pay was infeasible. Luckly I knew to process of dealing with such an infection was to remove the core from the boil, disinfect the wound, place a drain, then cover it up and request some antibiotics.  I was able to lance the boil and do all the treatment work (I have a very high tolerance for pain) and requested my doctor prescribe some antibiotics.  When I arrived at the office he examined the treated wound and told me he was impressed I was able to do that myself and that it looked as good as the work he would have done.  He did suggest I let a professional do it next time as I could have hurt myself but still I managed to treat it myself.
-1	I've had issues where my tongue gets inflamed and swollen for reasons I still do not understand. Most doctors look at my tongue and focus on the top portion. I have what is called a geographical tongue. It has an odd design and looks cracked and spaced apart on the surface, kind of like the landmasses on the earth. Most doctors have not even heard of this and focus on that, as though it is part of, or the reason for the inflammation. This is one area in which I actually know more than the doctors, and frustrates me when they wont listen to my explanation. 
1	I demonstrated knowledge of medical issues when I was explaining to a tennis student of mine what tendonitis is. It is something I have had in past playing as often as I do and I very comfortable explaining what it is. 
-1	An example is i know the flu is a virus and has to run its course but why the doctor wrote a prescription for my 3 year old to take a prescription and told me got her to take it because it will take her flu away.
1	My son ended up having absence seizures. I had to learn a lot about it and things that could come from it. Learning about his medications and side effects. Monitoring him so I could relay any information back to the doctors. 
-1	My grandmother had dibeties and when I was 17 she went to get her toe nails cut by her podiatrist. He cut her toenail too short and she developed an infection. I was able to clean her foot, apply ointment and dressed her wound. I did this for a few days with no improvement. When I went to do the same thing the next day, it clearly was getting worse. I advised my grandmother that it looks like gangrene and she should go get it checked. She did and was admitted to the hospital for gangrene. They would normally take the toe but because of her age they highly recommended we didn't opt for that solution. They ended up injecting her with some type of solution and gave her an antibiotic and dressed the wound. Whatever they did stopped the infection and she lived for two more years after that incident and passed away due to other reasons unrelated to the toe 
-1	I diagnosed myself of having low thyroid by doing research online. I compared my symptoms and presented it to my doctor who did a blood test and confirmed. 
1	A few years ago, my dad was having some stomach pains.  My mom and I took him to the doctor that specialized in stomach and related issues.  It seemed like we filled out paperwork for awhile.  It was a lot to it.  Later, my dad was diagnosed with having pancreatic cancer.  That lead to him to having surgery which went well.  From then on, both mom and me helped him to recover and do everything that the doctor told us to do to help my dad.
-1	I spent every day for 8 months at the hospital with my best friend and partner when she was dying with complications from colon cancer surgery. I watch a person who loved good food being fed thru tubes.I watched her go from a life loving person to someone to someone with tubes coming out of her stomach and into a bag. We had ask every question that there was to ask before her having the surgery.
1	I cut myself on accident at work and properly took care of the wound by cleaning it and covering it bandages.
1	In college I though I had a hickey from a girl on my neck for about a week and I could not figure out why it would not heal.  I went to the dr for strep throat and brought up the mark and turned out it was ring worm
1	About ten years ago, when I was in between college and graduate school, I spent a couple of years working as a paramedic.
-1	While experimenting with birth control, I was put on a low dosage because my heart needed to be tested to make sure it could handle it. I asked my doctor if I could eventually change which type of pill I took because it was making my depression worse.
1	When I took my mother to the ER and had to educate the nursing staff not only about her condition but also her oxygen needs and some meds she couldn't have.
1	My mother has diabetes and she neglects it.  I get on her to check her blood sugar and to eat better and exercise.  I'm very concerned about her life and her limbs!
1	When a doctor explained what type of cancer my dad had, I demonstrated that I understood by asking various questions.  Basically I understood how serious it was.
1	A few months ago I was lifting something that was too heavy and I heard a popping sound in one of my hamstrings. I could tell right away that I tore a hamstring based upon the sound that my hamstring made. I knew that I had to see a doctor to see the extent of it.
-1	My mom has always had health problems and was always in and out of the hospitals. I learned a lot by listening and asking questions.
1	Let's take flu shots.  I have opted out of getting a flu shot.  I have never had one before, however this year I was tempted.  I understand that the flu shot is only about 17-18% effective in preventing the flu.  This number is not very high.  I also understand what they are telling us is that even if we get the flu, the severity would be reduced if we were to get a flu shot.  Since the flu appears so prevalent this year I am tempted, but I have taken the recommendations into consideration, along with the stats and have decided I would take my chances again this year and not get a flu shot. We'll see what next year brings.  
-1	My knowledge of health issue in my life that I was aware of is food combinations that give indications that there may be a serious problem... but it just eating the wrong foods together.
1	With my first pregnancy, I was induced for gestational hypertension. For my second pregnancy, I was able to discuss preventive treatment with my OBGYN and went on to have a normal low-risk pregnancy. 
1	I have had 2 children.  I was 40 years old with the first child and so I was subject to extra testing.  Now I have a chronic condition and use medication to control it.  I try to read articles on health and medicine on a regular basis.
1	I know that albuterol helps open the lungs during an asthma attack. I also know how to stagger medications of tylenol and motrin every three hours when fighting a fierce flu fever.
-1	I am able to tell which kind of sickness i have. I can get my own medicine that is right for the symptoms. Don't need a doctor all off the time 
-1	My daughter had a fever one time. It was under 100 degrees. My husband wanted me to take her to the doctor but I remember her pediatrician saying that I did not need to bring her in unless the fever went above 100.4 degrees. We were able to treat the fever naturally without taking her to the doctor. 
1	I was in a car accident which left my back hurting.  I have done one month of physical therapy and the doctor asked if I thought going back to it would help and if not what would I want to do next.  I said the physical therapy wasnt going to work the way I need it to and suggested the pain management next.
1	I fell and cut my knee pretty badly. I washed the wound thoroughly and bandaged it. I eventually went to urgent care because the wound was actually wider than I had originally thought, and although it had passed the 24hour window for being able to get stitches, I wanted to get the wound checked to avoid a chance of infection. 
-1	One night when I was eating dinner at a restaurant, a man fell out of his chair onto the floor. He was unresponsive. Someone called 911 and I got up to watch and see what was happening. The lady on the phone yelled out if anyone knew CPR and to start doing it now. None volunteered and I coulldn't believe none of these people knew CPR or didnt want to do it. I felt like it was my responsibility to step up since I had taking several CPR Advanced classes.
-1	There's been times where I was at the hospital and I was already suspecting myself to have POTS. I told them about how my heart rate increases when standing, among other things, and the doctors just told me that I had panic disorder and wouldn't listen to me. Lo and behold, I was right and it was an incident where I knew more than the doctors. 
1	I do not have many experiences with health or medical issues. The issue that I take the most care is my sexual health and get tested often, use birth control to manage cramps and acne and went and got an IUD which really helped
1	My son was born with spina bifida two years ago. Every time I take him to a doctors apartment I have to make medical decisions and asses his progress at home. After his spinal closure as a newborn I had to treat his closure, administer medication, and preform sterile procedures. 
-1	An individual had a diabetic collapse in a store that I was shopping in. I recognized the signs of the episode and immediately provided the individual with a bottle of oranges juice and he was fine minutes later. I've see it before so I never forgot about it and used that knowledge in that situation.
-1	I was diagnosed with diabetes and i had to take metoformin. My A1C was at 6.5. I also had high blood pressure but i do not reme8the meds I was on.
1	I have had an emergency operation to correct a colovescicular fistula, and my recovery took 3 months. I am also a health care professional,  for the last 26 years. During the process I was constantly elevating my wife's level of medical knowledge in order to help her care for me as I went through this situation. My explanation of the medical issues occurring to me also comforted my wife and gave her hope of a good outcome. 
1	I have scoliosis, so I know a lot about it. I won first place in a state competition for my knowledge of scoliosis.
1	When I knew I had shingles before I even went to the doctor. I tend to look up symptoms of however I'm feeling/looking exhaustively so I know I'm not wasting my doctors limited time. 
-1	I had to go through my mom having cancer and going to all of her doctor visits. It was very traumatic for the both of us but I was trying to be strong for her because If I showed weakness to her then it was going to be harder for her to go through this.
-1	I was visiting a doctor for my GI issues.  My previous research allowed me to discuss exactly what parts of my body that I was experiencing pain.  I was able to understand his terminology like Bile.
1	When I was hospitalized for a chronic disease. I had to learn everything about it. It was a brand-new diagnosis and I was unable top understand all the implications at first. So I had to learn about it. moving forward I was able to advocate for myself and ask proper questions. 
1	I developed a severe case of hives all over my body that required 3 trips to the ER.  I was 45 and never had hives before, my DR insisted it was something I ate, I knew it wasn't.  I went over the previous day and figured out that I had brought a big bunch of sunflowers to work and had the AC on in recirculate the air and I breathed in all that pollen,  took her a few days but she agreed with me
1	When I gained a lot of weight due to some medication that I had been prescribed, I wanted to lose it.  I knew what the implications of carrying that extra weight around were for my body and it was not acceptable to me.  I knew how to do do a weight loss program with healthy eating and exercise without any medication to help me lose weight.
1	I've had a baby, and my wife has been in and out of the hospital the past 2 years for a few surgeries. My sister is also a nurse, and has talked with me about a lot of medical and health issues.
1	I had a blood clot and was told by the walk-in care that it was just a bug bite.  I researched my symptoms on my computer and determined that it appeared to be a blood clot.  I went to a different hospital and they agreed.  I was immediately admitted for my condition and it ended up saving my life.
1	Well for a long time I kept getting a burning in my chest. Doctor and I were not sure what was causing it. Initially we both thought it was bronchitis as I also had trouble breathing. After inhalers and steroids didn't help, we thought it might be heartburn, as I've had history of acid reflux and stomach issues. So after being on prilosec for a bit, I noticed I still had the burning in my chest. It was then I noticed that it occurred when my heartrate went up. So after informing my Doctor of this, we knew it was heart related, and pin pointed the issue. 
1	Last winter I slipped on ice and fell hard. For nearly a month I walked around in a CVS splint while everyone told me to go to the doctor and get it checked out. The swelling had gone down and the pain was not so bad so I was convinced it was a bad sprain .. except for it didnt get better. Finally I went to get it looked at and instantly the doctor knew my wrist was broken. He thought I was an idiot basically. I ended up getting a plate and screws put in and was lucky I didnt wait longer because it had to be rebroken and reset. Duh.
-1	My personal experience with rare conditions, 1 taking 5 years to diagnose. Also caretaking a dear friend that passed of cancer and others I care about trying to help.
1	I suddenly broke out in bronchospasms and uncontrolled life-threatening allergic reactions. No medication or allergy shots could help. My ANA was constantly positive. I insisted I had Lupus and pushed to be seen. The doctor gave me blood work and diagnosed me with SLE. Since then, my health problems have gotten worse, even with the Plaquenil.
1	I used to instruct medical students on how to give physical exams.  Through that job I was moderately versed in the health and medical issues specific to that area of examination.
-1	From my pharmacy experience, I was able to notice that a relative, who was suddenly having issues after beginning a medication, was given two contraindicated medications that interact with each other.
1	An experience that I knew about my health problem was with my scoliosis issue. My ribs frequently come out of place which is why I see a DO. Seeing the chiropractor is also an issue, and while I am aware of the pros and cons of seeing a chiropractor, it is not covered by my insurance. I know how to do stretches and exercises that help my scoliosis and have discussed this with my primary care physician. 
-1	I had to do IVF to have my son. I actually had to tell my doctor some of the infertility lingo, and inform the nurse on some of the things we have to go through when doing IVF. Some of the things they had no clue you had to do. Like and SSG, having blood draws every other day, having to inject specific medications at a very specific time. I guess if they have never dealt with IVF, they may not know, since they aren't specialized in that area.
1	Because so many of the men in particular from my family have had gastroin-intestinal cancer, I had a lot of experience with dealing with the issue and who in the area has the most expertise, and this have successfully directed friends to the best facilities in the area for cancer treatment .(in this case University of Chicago)
-1	My husband had Type 2 diabetes.  I became very aware if his blood sugar got too high by the symptoms he showed.  IE: sweating because of high sugar or pale lips because of low sugar.
1	i was misdiagnosed with a skin condition. i did a lot of research and ended up having to tell the doctor what was wrong with me.
1	Well I have grown up with a grandmother that was a nurse. I have always been interested in health topics. I was an athletic performance coach. I also participated in sports that had mandatory weight classes. Learned a lot about human anatomy and how joints work. Then I worked both in private security and as a drug technician so I got to see first hand how certain chemicals affect the body and have helped people that have OD on drugs stay alive.
-1	I was having high blood pressure and realized I hadn't been working out very much and I told my doctor this and about how my diet was bad. I explained why my blood pressure went up and it was accurate according to him.
1	I remember I tried explaining to my friend Bill that he was having symptoms of a heart attack and that he should go to the doctor. He had chest pain and shortness of breath. He did not listen to me and ended up dying from a hearth attack the next day.
1	I was able to understand what my doctor was saying. I was familiar with  the drugs given which was found helpful at the pharmacy as well.
1	When I worked in a skilled nursing facility as an occupational therapy assistant, I often had to assist patients in daily activities that would improve their overall health and well being.  Often times, I would explain how these activities were beneficial to their health whether it be through diet, exercise, or teaching them different techniques to ensure their safety.  
1	I'm a big medical drama fan, I watched House MD and my ex-girlfriend is a nurse too, so I get a lot of information from her too. In addition I like watching medical procedures on youtube and I look up definitions of words I'm not familiar with.
1	I have visited the hospital when my mother was seriously ill and was able to converse with her doctors to determine her statistical prognosis of going into remission
1	understanding dosages and which medicine to take at specific times to avoid getting sick or making sure I didn't combine medications that could have adverse reactions when chemically mixed
1	I have high cholesterol and I have been able to control the problem with diet and exercise. My mother had a stroke and I was able to help her recovery through what I learned from doctors and my own independent research 
1	I am not sure about a specific event but I have had multiple abnormal PAP tests and 2 LEAP procedures. That really got me paying attention to what my test results were showing as well as picking out the correct birth control options for me. I did a lot of research about it on my own and asked my doctor plenty of questions. 
1	As a teenager I was given Accutane for acne. I understood the significant side effects of skin dryness as well as increased sun sensitivity, and liver issues. I made the decision to take the drug despite the concerns. 
-1	I was diagnosed with an underactive Thyroid so i had to undergo many blood tests to find the proper dosage of medication. I see a doctor every three months making me very familiar with that particular illness.
1	I am a surgery resident.  This means I am engulfed in the medical field at all times of my occupational life.  I understand most of medical terminology.
1	I was aware that diabetes required a specific diet. For my mother, who had a 3 month average blood sugar of 350mgs, I changed her diet substantially. In three months, we reduced carbohydrate intake and adhered to foods lower on the hypoglycemic index. This was coupled with an emphasis on water and diet drinks as opposed to normal soft drinks with sugar. After the three month period, her average three month blood sugar was reduced to about 150 mgs.
1	I can take care of my children when they are ill. there are some allergic reactions in my family and I know from experience when they need to seek medical attention.
1	I researched a lot into chronic rhinitis before going to the doctor for the fifth time or so.  When I was there, based on what I read I thought that what the doctor was advising me to take didn't make much sense because I know that I don't have allergies and past antihistimines haven't helped me, so I asked if something might be better than that.  He gave me something different, which didn't help either unfortunately.  
1	A family friend recently was diagnosed with renal failure. They were a little bit confused with the prognosis and advice given by the doctor so I was able to talk to them about their concerns and try to help them to understand. 
1	I'm not exactly sure what experience to write about, but about 10 years ago, I stopped eating meat. I was quite concerned about getting enough protein, iron, and vitamin b12, so I planned my diet in a way that I would get the nutrients I need and remain healthy. I ate a diverse diet and made sure I had at least the recommended amount of each most days. When I had to get a blood test done 5 years later, everything was normal. I'd like to think that the care I took about planning my meals contributed to that. 
1	I am currently in a PhD program studying Transplantation Immunology at Emory University. If that alone doesn't demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues I'm not sure what does. I have also diagnosed a friend experiencing low blood sugar who ended up developing type II diabetes.
-1	I have. Food allergies one day my friend was feeling bad I saw all the signs of food allergy I shot her up with my episode pen 
1	i have had several false positive test results that have required additional screenings.  I work in the produce industry.  food safety is a major aspect of compliance.  it's important to be up to speed on prevention of food related illnesses. 
1	My husdand and two sons have a condition called Von Willebrand Disease (VWD) which is a genetic clotting disorder. I think, I am fairly knowledgeable about VWD. I have administered humate-p intravenously to my husband on a couple of occasions. 
1	My cousin got her tooth out and I knew exactly how to take care of her and what would happen if she didn't treat the extraction spot properly. 
1	I make sure to ask questions when I don't understand why I am doing something. I also make sure to stay insured at all times, which demonstrates my understanding of health risks.
-1	My husband had a sudden cardiac arrest and was unconcious for 14 days and in the intensive care for 30 days. I was the one responsible for making decisions for him. I was very attentive and asked many questions during rounds. If there was anything I had a question about, I would question the doctor. I understood fully what the nurses and doctors told me.
1	I have a child with Autism. A close childhood friend of mine has a son about a year older than my own. After my son was officially diagnosed, she and I would compare our boys' behaviors. She insisted that her son exhibited the same characteristics that diagnosed my son with Autism; however, her doctors would not acknowledge her son's symptoms. Several years later, her son received and official Autism diagnosis and was able to receive beneficial services.
-1	I haven't had anything majorly life threatening happen to me so I don't have a lot of knowledge or experience about very many medical conditions. However, I learned a lot about women and newborns when I gave birth to my two children. I also really enjoyed learning about breastfeeding and helped a lot of my friends breastfeed successfully. 
1	I have a lot of friends that are pharmacists, doctors, or physician assistants. If I have any question that I can't find online I usually ask them.
1	I helped care for my grandmother for 3 years ans had to help alot with her medical iaaues. She was in and out of the dr office with her old age and I saw alot of medical documents 
1	My college roommate started feeling awful one evening. It came on very suddenly, and she began to feel pain in her lower abdomen and some serious nausea. I got our RA for the building to come look at her, and she called an ambulance because my roommate's condition was getting worse. I remembered those symptoms from my mother's kidney stone the previous year, and figured that might be what the issue was. We called my roommate's parents and they thought it might be appendicitis, but I was pretty sure about the kidney stone. My roommate rarely drank water but was otherwise healthy. I of course let the medical professionals do their work and didn't posit any theories, but I was right in the end. I felt that I had confident knowledge of what to do for my roommate in a medical crisis (helped her throw up, got help, supported the decision to call an ambulance, notified her parents, navigated the hospital later in a visit) as well as of this particular issue.
-1	When I had pneumonia I recognized the symptoms. I went to the emergency room and they diagnosed me. While at home I medicated myself and tried to treat it but I realized that this needed medical attention. I think that if I didn't know the symptoms and I stayed home I would have had a worse outcome. Because of what I knew I wemt amd got medical care.
1	I was child care provider for 15 years. I was certified in CPR and First Aid and took care of many children with various illnesses.
1	When I was younger, my mother was diagnosed with leukemia. During this time I had a lot of exposure to medical procedures and thus learned a lot.
-1	I recent battled breast cancer and won. I had a port put in, went threw 26 weeks of chemo and a mastectomy. 
1	For about three years I had my throat progressively closing up. I had to go to a Gastroenterology specialist because it was determined it might be a GERD issues that might be causing this my throat issue.  I had three procedures where my throat was opened up, but the Dr. could quite figure out what was going on as each endoscopy was returning nothing that could explain the obstruction. I started doing research on possible causes one possible cause took my attention. I knew because of other unrelated testing, that my iron was low, and in my research, a possible cause showed that low iron could be responsible for webs forming in the throat area. During my follow up meeting I asked the Dr. about this and after he ordered additional blood work, he confirmed that it was my iron-levels were the reason for the obstruction. He prescribed iron and I have not had to go back since. 
1	When I was pregnant, I was constantly having gallbladder attacks. I had researched a lot over how to prevent them and talked to my doctor numerous times. I tried many tricks to get rid of them and prevent them, which all worked. I since have had it removed and have helped 2 family members receive their own diagnoses of gallstones after recognizing that their symptoms were exactly like mine.
-1	When I started having lumps under my skin, which I knew to be a complication due to the Alpha One Anti-tripsyn deficiency, and my doctors didn't know anything about it. It is a condition called Panniculititis and it is due to my lack of alpha one protein, and I had to educate my own doctor about this.
1	I have a friend who was telling me he was having wine and I knew he was on anxiety medication. I asked him about it. He said his doctor said an occasional glass was fine. He also said he spaced a lot of time between a glass or two of wine and his med.
-1	When my mother had the flu I helped take care of her, making sure she took not too much Tylenol and gave her plenty of fluids, etc.
1	The only real main surgical procedure that I've ever had done was a repair of my rotator cuff.  The surgery also cleaned up some cartilage that was floating around and shave down some bone spurs.  The procedure went with no problems and the doctor was very accurate when he told me the expected recovery time and any potential issues that may popup.  Within 6 months I was 90% recovered and by 18 months I felt 100% again.
1	I think the most important way that I have displayed my knowledge is by taking care of family members who have become ill. It is very important to watch children closely when they have an illness because their life could be in danger. The scariest moment was when my son had a fever and I knew to bath him to help bring down his temperature.
-1	Three years ago my grandfather was diagnosed with CHF.  With this diet certain things need to happen to ensure his condition is stable.  Taking his weight 2x a day along with his BP.  Also I need to monitor his salt.  I have had to learn about healthy and safe weightgain or loss.  Proper reading of nutrition lables.  How to take a BP and the importance of his medications to keep him healthy.
1	I haven't been faced with situation where I had to exercise any medical knowledge, most of my experience has been with accompanying patients and being there for emotional support.
-1	an experience that demonstrated the knowledge of my health issues was me having an asthma attack. I knew the symptoms of asthma while knowing other friends who have it. However, when I felt the same symptoms I knew that I was having an asthma attack. this allowed me to get to the hospital quicker and not have to wait around the paramedics to come. It was very disturbing because I didn't know what my outcome was going to be. However, I was able to make it there on time and get sorted out while the doctors giving me prescription to help ease the pain. 
1	I have had a positive mammogram, and also am diabetic.  I am required to understand what is going on because nobody else will do it for me.
-1	Was fitted for a pacemaker at the age of 27. I became very well read in mycondition(s) from that point on.
-1	Well I don't know a ton of  stuff honestly but I know enough about traumatic injuries and we were playing basketball and my friend hurt his foot really badly and he kept saying it was broken and i said it was sprained so we went to the doctor and he ended up having it sprained and not broke.
1	My two year old daughter started crying and her neck started swelling up after eating a sandwich. I checked the label and saw there were hazelnuts in the bread.  I guessed that she must be having an allergic reaction so I gave her a dose of antihistamine and rushed her to the doctor.
1	I was on vacation with my father. We were taking a long road trip together. During the trip back my father was not feeling very well. He started complaining about pin in his left arm and strong headaches. Part of his face was starting to paralyse. I knew it had something to do with his heart and him eing diabetic. Sure enough a few days later he had a heart attack. Luckily I was watching over him and I reacted quickly and got him to a hospital in time to control the situation.
1	The more often a person is prescribed antibiotics the less effective they will be.  When I do have sinusitis that is bad enough to make me actually see a doctor (feeling like I am dying) I have to tell them not to bother writing a script for amoxicillin because I won't bother filling it as it will not work, it's like eating a bottle of Tic Tacs for me at this point.
1	At my age I am regularly scanned for colon cancer. It is common. While many people avoid it, I understand that avoiding it can cause rectal or colon cancer.  If detected early it is treatable.  I go every 5 years. I took one at 50 and 55
1	Whenever I go to see the doctor, I make sure to request that I be tested for diseases that have symptoms similar to what I'm experiencing.  The doctor usually suggests testing for very basic things, but I know that names of the tests and procedures that need to be done for other diseases that the doctor has overlooked.
-1	I did some medical research and realized that some symptoms I had might be similar to the symptoms for hypothyroidism. I talked to my doctor about it and we did a blood test. My blood test was negative for the disease, but it's still good that we tested for it.
1	I work as a medical coder and biller. I know a lot about health insurance. I have been able to educate several of my clinics Medicare patients.
1	I had done some reading about medical robotics before I actually saw any actual footage. So when I looked at the footage, I was able to identify what tools and what process was being done. It was fascinating to see what I had only beforehand read about in front of me.
1	I am an analyst for a living.   I have sleep apnea.    With out a CPAP machine, I stop breathing and night and I am not able to concentrate during the day.   Therefore, by following therapy, I am able to have a better quality of life.
-1	I was in a motorcycle accident and shattered my vertebra . I was on medications and had to follow and set up how much and when to take the meds. Also had to deal with insurance papers. 
-1	Both my parents were alcoholics. I never cared for alcohol, probably because of them. My mother was also a diabetic. My mother's mother was a diabetic and I remember as a child, she had her leg amputated. My father died of cirrhosis of the liver at age 69, my mother died from a stroke at age 61. My younger sister (age 62) is blind from the effects of sugar diabetes. My brother died in 1999 at the age of 39 from cirrhosis of the liver. With all this going on, I've always been aware that I want to be healthy. It's not easy. I weight 184, 5 foot 2, work at a very physical job which benefits me. I have good teeth, get around good, except for my weight. 
-1	I grew up with a bi-polar mother. Over time I realized I was bi-polar by some of the traits I was starting to exhibit.
-1	A experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health was when I was in college, I was on the Track and field sprint team. Yes I was fast but, at times I would feel sluggish compared to my teammates. So I realized the reason was because I was not eating correctly, so I went to a nutritionist that taught me how to do so.
1	Having a baby definitely made me more knowledgeable. From start to finish, I learned about my changing body and building a baby inside of me. Many things were different after I had the baby and learning about the signs and things to look for on a growing baby or just sickness in general. You learn a lot becoming a parent so it definitely makes you pretty familiar with medical issues.
-1	I worked on a icu step down unit in a local hospital where many times I was involved with caring for high risk patients. You have to be alert and aware to even be employed by this unit. Also I own my own licensed massage therapy business and have been in practice 15 years
1	When my sister was dieing from a critical lung disease, after having a double lung transplant, I was responsible for home care of her wounds healing and of distribution of her medications  
-1	a time is when my niece was choking and I asked my sister in law if they had a bulb to take the mucus out of my baby niece 
1	My partner is on home dialysis.  My job is to determine tweaks to treatment and dietary changes, based on his labs, to give him the best possible outcome. 
1	I was an EMT during my college years. One of our calls was for a passed out man who smelled of alcohol. I suspected diabetes and called in my suspicion on our way to the hospital. My suspicions were correct based on hospital records however we did not treat with meds for diabetic shock.
1	I used to sell pharmaceutical's professionally so I have countless examples. One time, I held a luncheon at a teaching hospital for Cardiology fellows. I gave them a brief talk about a fairly new anti-arrhythmic medication, then later I met with several of them individually and in small groups. I was asked many questions and was able to provide them with safety and efficacy statistics and studies. 
1	I do not have a lot of health and medical knowledge outside of what a normal person would have that is common knowledge.
1	I went to school for exercise science/ kinesiology. I had to pass a lot fo exams for that honor and I learned basic healthcare knowledge. 
1	The last time I had a respiratory infection, (5 years ago) I monitored my temperature closely, covered my mouth during coughs and sneezes, and followed my doctor's treatment plan.
1	I don't consider myself to be especially knowledgeable in health or medical issues. I have general knowledge in the areas of nutrition from a class I took in college. I try to choose healthier options when I go grocery shopping because of that like ground turkey over ground beef. I know sitting for extended periods of time is bad for you, so I try to get up and walk around every hour or so (I work an office job). In terms of medical problems I have gone straight to the doctor for a mole that started to look abnormal because I know that can mean cancer. For the most part I just try to make sure I take all preventive measures and get all required tests for my gender and age group.
1	in some point of my life, I have learned and read a lot of medicine and medical diseases, and in one situations i got a bad cold and i knew it and i took the cure about my self
1	Almost every instance I can think of demonstrates my *lack* of knowledge, so this is a hard question. But I've kept my husband alive through 30 years of a still-undiagnosed progressive neuromuscular disorder (he was diagnosed at first with ALS, and it looks a lot like that). I've taken him to emergency for what's turned out to be pericarditis, and for TIAs. I talk to his doctors. He's still alive, so there's that.
1	I had a script incorrectly filled at a pharmacy one time.  They accidentally gave me a different milligram strength than the one I was prescribed.  I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues by identifying that the pills were not as prescribed, and having the error corrected. 
1	One event in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I was diagnosed with Glaucoma. My previous knowledge of the condition helped me to understand that it can be treated with several different types of eye drops to lower the ocular pressure.
1	I was talking to one of my friends and he was mad his insurance quit paying for his crestor and forced him to start taking another drug (I'm sure it was atorvastatin). He told me he needed to get a massage because he has a personal trainer and his muscles felt sore and weak. I asked him if that was normal or did it just start recently. I asked if it started around when his insurance stopped paying for crestor. He said now that you mention it, it did! I said it is probably your new cholesterol drug because statins have a tendency to cause muscle weakness or aching. So his doctor filled out a prior authorization detailing the effect of the drug they recommended and he went back to his crestor and the muscle issues went away. 
-1	I take the time to discuss my health with my doctor. I also see my nurse clinic each month for a BP check. My health website has a lot of information on wellness and preventive care.
-1	I worked in the field of HIV care and treatment in many years. I was most confident in reading testing reports regarding one's CD4 count and viral load counts. I was also most comfortable in anti retroviral medications prescribed by physicians in my clinic.
1	One experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues involved a group of friends and myself hanging out. The guys in the group were being rambunctious and wrestling inside the house (something which was not recommended). At one point, one of the guys tripped and fell hitting his head on the corner of the television. It immediately began bleeding and he was unsure as to what he should do so he immediately came to me. My suggestion was to first stop the bleeding (apply slight pressure to the area), check his cognitive functioning/vision, and make sure he didn't fall asleep, and stay positive/encouraging so he would not panic. After a little while the bleeding stopped and we further assessed his state. I gave him ibuprofen and continued to monitor his state for the next couple of hours making sure that he knew we could go to the hospital if need be.
1	When friends of mine are mixing recreational drugs, I can tell them if that is relatively safe or not. For example, I make sure my friends never combine 2 or more GABAergics.
-1	Five years a go I went in for a checkup because I kept feeling dizzy. So I went in for blood work and other tests. Come to find out that I had high cholesterol so my doctor told me what I needed to do or if I wanted to take some medications. That was the time I learned more about health and what precautions I needed to take. So I started to pay more attention to my health.
-1	I'm not sure that I really have any experiences in my life that would demonstrate  my knowledge of health or medical issues, I just can't think of anything now sorry
1	Years ago my aunt was diagnosed with chronic leukemia.  She had a doctor at a different hospital who at one time he just didn't know what to do with her. Shortly after that I read an article about a new drug called Glevic to treat this and that people who were dying in hospices were getting uup and walking out.  I talked to the Head of oncology and he advised which oncologist she should see.   She lived 10 more years.
1	often times when I have a non-medical emergency I simply take care of the injury or illness myself. most of my knowledge has come from past experience and some actual education. this in turn gives me the ability to handle most small medical problems that I encounter throughout my life. Some of the more severe actions I have often look for assistance from another person close by. I often times diagnose myself or use the internet to try and find a common cure or how to treat an injury. I feel that my experience and knowledge is always growing, regardless of what I have known in the passed
-1	i explained to a friend that HVP can be contracted by simple skin to skin contact.  It was a quick expaination but a lot of people seem to think that you can only get it from sex.  However, that was not the case and I had to explain that to a friend who thought it was a myth.  
1	Last week I had pink eye, I know like many, the medical term is conjunctivitis, I knew it had viral and bacterial forms (and found out allergic as well). I knew that an antibiotic could help if it was bacterial in nature and over the counter medicines could treat the symptoms. I knew that the secretion that comes with pink eye is typically called discharge. I knew the cornea was the part of the eye that shows irritation. And some other stuff you get the idea.
1	"I was getting sharp cornea pain years after a corneal injury. I looked online and saw my symptoms match up with something called ""recurrent corneal erosion"" i felt pretty sure that this is what i had and i just needed someone to help me with treatment. I went to a specialist and he said that i had correctly diagnosed myself."
1	I took care of my elderly grandpa for a long time. I was always keeping track of his lab results and specifically his A1C levels because he has diabetes. I went with him to all his doctor appointments to be informed on what he needed. 
1	One day i seen an old person was about to fall and i rushed to him to hold him but he fall down. then some other people tried to help him get up i told them we should not let him up we don't know if he has any broken bones. then i tried to see if he has broken bones pressing on his bones and asking if he has any pain. then we let him sit in well chair.
1	Every time that I see a new doctor I have to explain my traumatic brain injury and the effect it has had on my life.  More than a few times, doctors have told me that they were impressed with my knowledge of my issues and the brain in general, but I always reply that it's my responsibility as a TBI patient.
1	One time in life that demonstrated my knowledge about medical issues is when I made a home remedy to kill my cold. I use peroxide, lemon juice,  baking soda,  and some salt.  I was able to get rid of my cold  more quicker than I have ever expected.  This was one time in life that I demonstrated my knowledge in medical issues;  and it helped me to get rid of my cold.
-1	There was a time that my son was having little red bumps and itches all over his body and fever right away I Soum that it was chickenpox two to my prior knowledge being that my goddaughter had it the year prior
-1	When my husband had a heart attack 6 years ago, he struggled to understand some of the terminology used for the procedure that was required to rectify his issue, as well has the disease that was causing his issues. 
1	I was diagnosed with Wolfe-Parkinson-White syndrome. This condition results from an extra electrical pathway in the heart that causes the blood being pumped to go into a loop and results in a very rapid heartbeat. I found out much information about the condition and decided that it was safe to live with it as long as it only occurred occasionally. When it started occurring more frequently and I passed out, I had it checked out and had an ablation procedure done to correct the short-circuit. I read up on the procedure to get as much information as possible before deciding to go ahead with the surgery.
1	My young daughter gets constant ear infections.  I know how to treat them and avoid them at this time and to take her to the doctor.
-1	 when I was in college my first choice  to go to into the medical field along the way i changed my mind hiw ever i took some mefical courses thats why i have some knowledge
1	A good friend was planning to use alternative remedies (magic chanting, and smelling things, and thinking good thoughts) instead of getting actual medical treatment, and I implored her to use real medicine instead of wishing for a wizard to cure her.
-1	I WOULD SAY WHEN MY DAD WAS DIAGNOSED WITH CANCER SINCE I HAD WORKED IN THE HEALTH FIELD I KNEW ALOT OF WHAT THEY WOULD TELL HIM AS FAR AS DIAGNOSIS AND MEDICATIONS. ALL I HAD WORKED WITH AND STUDIED HELPED ME UNDERSTAND MORE FULLY. 
1	I made the decision not to terminate a pregnancy even though there was a high risk of genetic abnormality because I did a lot of research and questioned the statistics provided by the doctor
-1	I was able to self diagnose myself routinely for strep throat and brochitis because of being sick constantly as a child. I have had it over and over again in my life so I recognize when teh symptoms set in and how to deal with them befor seeing the doctor
1	My child had foul breath and an ear ache. It was clear to me that she had strep throut but the doctor didn't think so. She ordered the test and it came back negative. my daughter then developed a high fever and i brought her back a few days later. Her strep test finally came back positive.
-1	Just learned it through the experiences when I went to see my primary care physician. Learned new things every time I go there for a visit. 
1	I once got an abnormal pap smear.  The doctor started to draw basic cells on a wet mount slide to explain it to me until I started laughing because I had a Masters in biology.
1	I am usually able to have a coherent back and forth conversation with my doctor. Meaning, When my doctor talks to me about even new things in medicine, I usually have already read about it enough to have a conversation with her about it. Recently we discussed how the gut is very much related to anxiety and how we eat is a chain reaction to anxiety. 
1	I had to get an ear drum surgery a couple years back due to a small hole in my right ear which was causing very frequent ear infection., and after my through research and doctor visits, I decided to get the surgery as I figured out that the risk was very low and the surgeon success rate was over 97%. Based on my experience it was very smooth and very successful operation, now I don't have any problem with my ears, I haven't had any ear infection since then. Net net most of the things I have learned, during my research and doctor visits, such as possible side affects, and the timing of recuperation etc. were in line with what I expected.
1	I experienced knowledge of health issues by reading mom's health records/etc. while in the hospital and helping her understand it. It made me feel like I was being useful.
1	I am able to keep and maintain our company first aid and emergency supplies, and have provided first aid in emergencies until first responders could step in.
1	When I went to physical therapy after breaking my right elbow and left wrist from a motorcycle accident. The physical therapist asked me about my injuries and other details where I then explained to him everything that I knew from both what the doctors told me as well as what I knew previously and what I learned from doing my own research regarding the rehabilitation process and procedures that should be taken and followed to get the most positive results possible.
1	I recently went in with nerve pain in my shoulder and I had done research before and correctly diagnosed myself with a supra scapular nerve injury.
1	When I had an inflamed sweat gland and my doctor kept telling me it was and inflamed lymph node. The reason why I knew it wasn't was because I had googled it and spent time reading discussions and symptoms about it alone. The treatment my doctor gave me was wrong. After months, turns out I was right and my doctor was wrong.
1	I would say that I have some knowledge about eating healthy and trying to use healthy eating habits to maintain a normal and healthy weight
-1	My experience has been giving birth to children. I've done it 4 times so when someone comes to me with questions about the process i'm able to assists.
-1	i don't have any knowledge on health or medical issues because its not often i have to go to the doctor.
-1	there has not been an experience  that demonstrated my knowledge of any medical issue that I have had
-1	I just want to be healthy and live my life til the fullest I don't care if anything happen as long as I'm healthy and strong I know God have my back at all times 
-1	I went to a dermatologist for my acne issues and they told me the more technical term for my type of acne.  The doctor went in grand detail about what my acne was called and that was the first time that I received a diagnosis about my acne.
-1	Take care of my health and not eating too many salty food, exercise more drink a lot of water, follow doctors order 
-1	My dad had an heart attack at age 40 and he had to have heart surgery. It was then that I researched what it took to have a healthy heart. 
1	Every time I decide if I want to see a specialist, I need to go my insurance website and try to understand the medical jargon listed there
-1	One day, I got a chalazion on my eye. I looked up the symptoms, identified the condition and explained it to a physician.
1	When I explained to someone that the bacteria that causes chlamydia also causes, ring worm, jock itch, and yeast infections. 
-1	I needed a surgery for a back surgery and I knew someone that went through the same procedure. I did rely on them for support and asked them questions about the tests and procedure.
-1	I am a colon hydrotherapist and did a lot of studying.  My specialty is holistic health care.  I am still learning.  This survey deals more with numbers and that was a little puzzling to me but I hope I passed.  Thanks a million.
1	I have had a few experiences that demonstrated my small knowledge of health or medical issues. They mostly involved me clarifying information for others that didn't understand what their doctors were telling them.
-1	I had a  pancreas problem that is how I know about health and medical issues. And I also know what to do and not to do
-1	When I was told that i had to have a neck fushion and then another and another and right now because of it I have no feelings in my neck at all
-1	I was coming down with a cold and i had symptoms of a cold. My nose was running. I had a cough and sneeze so i took some mucinex.
-1	I had a bad cold and it was just the same thing take medication but I really don't know nothing about health issues I'm healthy 
-1	when I had to help a loved one who had gastritis.I followed the doctor's advice,researched online, and applied what I knew.The person recovered.
-1	I have scoliosis but because it's never been explained to me treatments I still have it With no knowledge of how to cure it
1	An experience that demonstrated my health/medical knowledge was when a nurse told me I should get a vaccine, which I had learned in class was a weakened virus that helps to develop immunity
-1	I don't have much knowledge of my health or medical issues because there is still a lot that I still need to learn. 
-1	I often get routine check ups anually, I also have mammograms taken on a yearly basis, didn't really understand why the question on this particular session of the survey 
-1	I am very knowledgeable because I am a very smart girl. That is the reason why I passed high school and went off to college
-1	There hasn't really been a time. I acted as a nurse for an aunt. She was having sweats but she was also cold at the same time. I took her bloood pressure and checked her sugar levels until first responders got to her 
-1	when I started watching food documentaries and stasrtedcstudying all the different foods I was eating and all the vitaminns I was taking
-1	Every month, I have monthly labs. I understand my numbers forwards and backwards. I understand where my phosphorus, potassium, etc needs to be at all times.
-1	I have had friends trying to lose weight and there were plenty of things I knew about nutrition facts. I was able to help them diet efficiently 
-1	My knowledge of healt my knowledge of Hell comes from my personal experience. My knowledge of healt my knowledge of health comes from watching TV shows like dr. Oz and the doctors. Menards also comes from books and other materials from the hospital given by the doctors or nurses.
-1	I needed to check my iron intake. So in each vegetable cans That i took that day, I check the iron percentage and I calculated the amount I was taking. 
-1	I have not had any diagnosis this crap in them exercise out thereI don't know what to say I don't have them them out of my arm now with Jake up America issue
1	I dunno... just recently I had a thing on my skin. I was able to recognize that it was outside of the sphere of my knowledge, so I sought the opinion of an expert. Knowing what you DON'T know is just as important as knowing what you DO know.
-1	I am not aware of the topic, I may need a lighter version so I can convey myself better.  I am sorry but I do not understand the passage
-1	I was having severe gastro problems. I could not get relief with over the counter medicine. I was constantly vomiting, and had to call someone to take me to the hospital. I have a case of Gerd, neiumx was my only relief, as well as changing eating habits.
-1	I had a fellow church member who was describing the fact that the medicine that they were taking made them cough. I remembered a previous article that I read that described that the medicine produced coughing in black women. I told her about the article that I read. 
-1	I do not have an experience in my life where I have demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	I have a son with a medical condition. I thoroughly did my own research, presented it to the pediatrician who then diagnosed my son with the condition that I had suspected after examining him. 
-1	I knew I had a bladder infection when it felt like I was burning. Also, I knew that a patient had a bedsore when I could see down to the bone.
-1	The experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of a medical issue was when my mom was diagnosed with lung cancer i tried my best to learn all there was about the treatment
-1	it when I was told I had sleep aphnea. The Doctor explained if I didn't stay on the sleep apnea machine it I could developed problems with my vitals organs. So I listened to him and use the machine every night.
-1	I have had no significant health issues so I am unsure I can answer the question appropriately                                                                                                   
-1	Free healthcare. That's how I demonstrated. I petitioned. I voted. Still don't understand why healthcare USB universal. 
-1	I have problems with my back I'm in severe pain 80% of my daily activities no matter how much medication I take it still does control the pain not even if I control my stress or blood pressure.
-1	I can't really think of any concrete examples, but I usually have those moments when I find out something is wrong with my mom.
-1	What my hey eh to be a good day at work and the rest of your day been and stuffed up and I will be there in a few minutes late to the gym now so I'll just get it in a couple more weeks to see the email from my account and I will be there in about an hour
-1	I understand my exact medical condition but and what to do if something really bad happened and we're would I go and what would i do
-1	My breast was hurting deep down in every time i swept the floor. so i went in to see the doctor. and he couldn't feel any lumps in my breast,  so he sent me for a mammogram and it showed i  had a tumor that was benign.
-1	I actually gave someone CPR when they past out while working out at the gym. When the ambulance came I was informed that I saved the person's life.
1	I am aware of medical issues because when the doctor gives me a diagnosis I know what is going on with my health I can take the appropriate action to make myself get better. For instance when I had a condition, I went to the doctor voicing my concerns. I took a diagnostic test. The doctor interpreted the results. I asked questions. I took the proper steps and obtained medication to get better.
-1	i found my brother un responsive at home, i immediately checked pulse , blood sugar and blood pressure to find that his blood sugar was low, gave him some ketchup to bring up while await for insulin.
-1	That I have never been through the process the I've no that I need what to do to take care of myself in the future
-1	deppresion it was really tough it took a while to get over that i really went totally crazy at the tine
-1	I haven't had a moment that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues. Maybe in the future I'll have the moment to show my expertise.
-1	When I was told I had High Cholesterol.  I was determined not to have to take any kind o medicine for the rest of my life.  I exercised and worked towards lowering my Cholesterol without medicine.
-1	I haven't had any medical expenses except for the flu once. I have basically been very healthy so far.
-1	A MAN FELL OUT IN A STORE, HE STARTED SHAKING AND I KNEW THAT HE WAS HAVING A SEIZURE. I DID KNOW HOW TO DO CPR, I KNOW OF IT. SO I TOLD THE PEOPLE WORKING IN THE STORE TO CALL AN AMBULANCE.
-1	my girlfriend told me she had cancer and i knew she couldn't take her cell in when she got her treatments
-1	My allergies.  I am able to determine when the allergy season starts and ends.  I know to start taking my medicine before the season is full swing.  I also know to wear sunglasses to keep pollen out of my eyes and to wash or rinse hair and clothing and change pillow cases.  
-1	I was told I had very high cholesterol and need medication when the number on the test show that I was only borderline.   The reading professional clearly did not read the result of test.  I did not take the medication.  Retook test a week later, cholesterol number was down my 7 numbers.  
-1	When talking about when to take medicine and doing the timing like if you take them at certain times of the day. The 12 hour or every 4 hour rule
-1	I realize my immune system is not working properly because I keep getting infections and having to get antibiotics 
-1	my mom used to be a nurses aid and i tried to learn some of the things she was learning while at work but i`m older now and dont remember much of what she taught me
-1	When my sister died,I found out that I had high blood pressure,and then I found out I was a diabetic.
-1	Right now I can't think of any. I am sure there has been some but  at the moment none come to mind for me
1	I had to have my gallbladder removed. I already knew that the bile would just go into the intestine rather than be stored. 
-1	As i previously mentioned, independently researching my suggested medications, in this case birth control and deciding not to have an IUD implanted or take the most popular option of the pill, instead I chose the arm implant with the fewest size effects and highest effectiveness.
-1	I think when I diagnose myself with OCD because I knew the symptoms and saw a television show about people with similar compulsive disorders
-1	When I was diagnosed with a thyroid condition. I had to have a biopsy because of the calcification of my nodules. Thank God my biopsy came back and I did not have cancer. But that made me research more on my thyroid condition.
-1	One time I went to the doctor because I thought that I had breast cancer and I realized that I had really sensitive skin and had to stop using certain soaps and lotions
-1	I have asthma and have been in and out of the hospital for a majority of my childhood. Since I've been in and out of the hospital for this I do have a strong understanding of my asthma and how to handle it. 
-1	An experience  that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues  was when my daughter had symptoms of an ear infection a second time and I was able to tell the doctor that it was an ear infection.
-1	When i was diagnosed with a cyst on my ovaries i was a little worried about it ending up as cancer. I had little to no knowledge about it.
-1	Don't really recall a situation where I had this experience everything has been pretty much regular 
-1	There was no moment in my life where I had to knew these things it even strived to know these things
-1	Pain in lower part of back causing it to feel stabbing cramping soreness everywhere causing you to not move
-1	There hasn't been very many situations in my life where I had to rely on my own health knowledge at all.
-1	When i hurt my arm and it was bleeding real bad. i had to stay calm as possible or i would have went in shock and died if i didnt.
-1	I haven't really had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I deal with maysthenia gravis and thyroid disease I have a lot of knowledge about my conditions and not question to ask.
-1	when i was in high school i learned about BMI. Body Mass Index is what it was. i figure out if i was over weight or under
-1	I DO NOT KNOW MUST ABOUT HEALTH BUT YOU NEED TO CARE OF YOUR BODY THE BEST YOU CAN. TRY TO EAT THE RIGHT CAN OF FOOD.
-1	I had an experience with digestion of dairy products. I had to have the knowledge to explain my symptoms.
-1	One time I get getting dizzy when I stood up to fast...I thought maybe it was high blood pressure...there is lot of that in my family history..so i was very familiar with the condition...went to the doctors and i was right
-1	In high school and girl fainted in class. No one knew why and she had been acting sick all day. I saw this and knew something was up and she had told me weeks before that she needed sweets and candy. When the nurse came I offered to help her down stairs. And told the nurses and the teacher that she need to sweets to help her.
-1	I spent a summer in a program in the Medical Preceptor Program.  I got to view a cadavir and spent a lot of time in the emergency room observing treatment and diagnosis under the guidance of the emergency department staff.
-1	I haven't had any health issues in the major part of my life because I try to do healthy things try to eat healthy be healthy do things healthy.
-1	nothing really I was diagnois with thyroid cancer which I know is serious at first I didn't know how to handle it but then I started praying asking god to give me strength ,but then he did I did a lot of praying till things throu god was looking better for me
-1	constantly feeling the need to pee and having an urgent need to pee. but when going to the bathroom, very little comes out. i knew i had an UTI
-1	my 6 yr old daughter had tonsil stones and i dianose her before i took her to the ear nose and throat doctor and he said thats what they were.
-1	When i was taking my undergraduate, taking biology class was a prerequisite. In my biology class we learnt about HIV/AIDS, how to know when one is HIV positive is when their CD counts goes below 200 only then they start taking anti viral drugs
1	When I had episodes of passing out suddenly in daytime I thought that I was getting diabetes and sought various diets before going to the doctor. So far the tests didn't find elevated sugar levels
-1	I have no idea about my health when dealing with doctors.  Tjey listen but do not tell what the possibilities are about my health.  Smdh! 
-1	A situation where I demonstrated knowledge of health issues is when my doctor is speaking in medical terminology and I understanding everything 
-1	In gym class from elementary to high school, students learn about health. In math and science we also learn how to solve problems and figure out our health.
-1	I feel if I diet and exercise I could control my sugar.  I am doing hat I supposed to eat. Trying to be healthy 
-1	Anatomy class senior year of high school, I studied many medical issues of variouus different natures.
-1	I just had fibroids remove and I had the best doctor in the west coast.I had no after problems surgery went get no pain after
-1	I would have to say my everyday work life.  I work closely with doctors and nurses,  where I monitor watch the vital signs of patients.  There have been times where I have a identified different heart blocks that even some doctors and nurse do not get. 
-1	I had to figure out when I needed to make an appointment for the obgyn at the right age. I realized I need led to go before I was 22. I also check my heart rate because my heart used to beat fast even when resting.
1	I have not had any major health issues in my life so far. I have had routine examines an d blood test , wich I understood.
-1	when I had surgury on my hand and follow the information what to do and how to do what was needed to get better and live a normal life.
-1	You always expecting to be the first to say things about it and all of them have to be a great service and they will not really do it or not because I know it enough to say it 
-1	Studying biology in college we had a focus on sickle cell anemia. This was a thorough two week study with an essay that was due at the end as well 
1	"I was diagnosed with an ""incurable"" disease and recommended a series of hormones, sterioids, creams, and drugs. I opted not to take them and literally spent 10 years researching my condition. My diligence and decision to operate outside the norm resulted in me having a depth of knowledge on health and diet as well as reversing my ""permanent"" ""irreversible"" condition. "
-1	It was just a lot of arithmetic. Proportions and percentages, and such. There was really no need to know medical information, as long as I could do the math it was fine. 
-1	AM NOT SO SURE BUT POSSIBLE RE-TELLING MY MEDICAL HISTORY TO A NEW DOCTORS IN A NEW COUNTRY. THAT ABOUT ALL
-1	i dont really know. i dont like these math questions thoughh because its not my strong suit but i think i did pretty well
-1	When I was tested for strep throat. I had had the issue before and wasn't having all the same symptoms so I knew it wasn't strep when I was tested again. 
1	Every night, I take prescribed eye drops to keep the pressures in my eyes low. I understand that if I do not apply the medication every night, my pressures will remain high. If my pressures remain high, I will lose peripheral vision at an advanced rate.
-1	I'm only 29. I can't recall any situation that would have demonstrated this other than nt determination to exercise and live a heart lifestyle. 
-1	years ago I developed an unshakeable cough. my knowledge of health issues prompt me to see a doctor as soon as possible. I realized that such a cough is a sure sign of some sort of infection. sure enough I was diagnosed as having tuberculosis.
-1	The first really big medical issue was having a c-section with my first child.The doctors explained how much safer it was for me and the baby. The baby would of died or had major problems if I had not done this.
1	I had a stye on my eye and with the proper research online  I was able to treat my own stye with a hot rag until it went away. 
-1	I am bipolar and have had many experiences when I knew a medicine I was taking wasn't the right one for what was going on with me. I was able to help determine the best medicine -- along with my doctor -- based on previous experiences and research.
-1	When I sprained my knee. It was very difficult trying to get medical attention. In the end I got what I needed. And really. That's all that matters. I'm happy and so should other people
-1	I have had parents that have both been victims of cancer.   I really enjoyed learning about the disease but what do you do. 
-1	I have been sick, I have had sick children, and my husband has been sick. I have been to the doctor's office and hospital with my family. I have done research and well. 
-1	The experience I had that tested my knowledge of my health or medical issues occurs each time I visit a Doctor. 
-1	I had a B9 tumor on my head behind my left eye. I became blind. 6 months later The tumor grew back. I was told the gamma knife would take care of it for life. I started having seizures when I didn't take my tegretols. So I took them for 5 years and decided to not take them anymore. Well I had another seizure. Now I take it everyday also go in to get my tegretol level to be sure I experience no more seizures 
-1	 N/A I have absolutely no experience that I can look back at and say it demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	This section sucked. I understsnd medical things but i was not prepaird for a math test. But i think i have a good enough understanding of medical issues
-1	MY father had cellulitis and I pointed it out to the visitng nurse. She said that's not what it was but we took him to the dr. and that is exactly what he had.
-1	That's like a test.. I haven't experienced anything that required these kibd of questions.. I guess maybe I do need help and not understand..
-1	I recently was told I had a vitamin d defieniency. I had to take a mega dose for six weeks and will have to take a high dose supplement for the rest of my life. 
1	A few years ago I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia. My doctor wanted to prescribe pills that I did not want so I did research to make lifestyle changes
-1	My son had fienre I measured the temperature and had 100, 8 degrees f and call the doctor and told me that it's a good thing I call him because it is dangerous. So if I have knowledge of reading medical papers
-1	I really cannot think of any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health issues that's why I rely on my doctors for guidance.
-1	This survey is not a good indicator of someone's knowledge of health issues as much as how good they are at math. I got frustrated so much that I quit answering the questions with effort because I am not good at percentages and long division with pen and paper. This was not very smart to do people who taking your survey. 
-1	i know for a fact gotsick for beenaround someone had tb and beenaround i got very sick went to the hospital they toldme it was a simply a cold boy what a relieve
-1	i haven't  has an experience that I demonstrated knowledge bout health or.medical issues . there's nothing in my life if any I research about it to understand it more
-1	I have never had an experience where my test results were read wrong or that I was told the wrong thing. 
-1	When it was my senior year of high school, I took a medical terms class. I know a little but not so much since then.
1	I had a friend that was diagnosed with being pre-diabetic. Since, she knew I was diabetic she asked me how did I change my diet and life in order to get control. Using the information provided my doctor and the American Diabetes Association, she was able to lower her AIC to the recommended levels.
-1	I have had sugar issues since 2013. I have had to take my blood and test it. I have had to manage what I eat daily. I have had to exercise  more.
-1	I had a high fever from having a sore throat. I needed to get my fever down and get rid of the sore throat so I bought myself lots of fruits that was packed with Vitamin C and antioxidates to reduce and get rid of my cold. It worked a couple of days later the sore throat was over and my fever was gone.
-1	I really don't know much . I try to get updates when i can and when i need it. It's not like i can go to the doctor every day .
-1	When I was diagnosed with a tumor weighing over 5 pounds and was crushing my lung and affected my breathing 
-1	When i had to help a friend get their insulin. Another time was when i did cpr on someones kid when they were drowning.
-1	Honestly, I don't think I have had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	I have had endometriosis and polycystic ovaries, which lead to a total hysterectomy in my early 30s. 
-1	I demonstrated knowledge when I had to learn about my asthma and what I can do to control this by taking my medicine it will help me
1	I do not really have experience in my life concerning health or medical issues. i often do rely on other or bank on others for their help
-1	Had pain in center of chest along with lost of appetite and throwing up & suspected a heart attack and it was
-1	my knowledge of medical issues relate direct to me. I know to eat healthy when I pregnant or I will have gestational diabetes again. I know to watch my sugar intake or I will have love handles again, etc.
-1	A friend of mine has epilepsy and she informed me that is she ever has a attack to just lay her flat and allow her to come out of it on her own. Just to make sure she doesn't hit her head or land too hard 
-1	I am aware that the hat I am suppose to eat healthy, exercise , drink plenty of water, get routine check ups, Pap smear and mammograms 
-1	My mom had asitma we had to do alot when having an attack hold her head up administer her medicine sometimes take her to hospital 
-1	My health has not been good over the past couple of years like it was 10 or 20 years ago and that worries me to the fact that I must start to take care of myself. 
-1	I have had no expierence that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues yet but maybe in the future i will
-1	My mother was ill for years before she passed. My grandparents had health issues before they passed 
1	When my husband was dying, his gout flared up and I was able to explain to the nurse what was happening to him.  They were concerned with his heart, lungs, and kidneys and overlooked gout.  I had to explain that it was unrelated to any of those things.  Of course they knew what gout was but that didn't immediately come to mind when he was in excruciating pain.
-1	A nearby death experience for when I got my big toe amputated from having staph infection and almost being near death.
-1	I guess just knowing better and not believing all the bullshit the doctors or these so called higher power people that try to gain the world. Yeshua always has the last word.
-1	I've had plenty of health issues throughout my life. The doctors seemed surprised I knew so much about what was wrong with me. They liked the fact that I understood everything they told me.
-1	I have demonstrated knowledge of health and medical issues dealing with pregnancy and my job as a certified nursing assistant. 
-1	Going to the emergency room and the nurse come in to draw my blood but pops the finger out of her glove which is very in sanitary 
-1	I am getting fed up with all these questions and percentages. but im doing it for points. I guess this is what its going to take.
-1	I get regular breast exams and mammograms when got irregular one I had to get further exams from other specialist
-1	I really haven't had any experiences like that.  The only ones I can come up with is understanding when a medical or health issue was being explained to me.
-1	I suffer from anxiety. So I'm more in tuned with my body and my medical issues. I always think I'm having a heart attack when I'm not (in which my heart's been checked out and I'm fine).
-1	I have a number of issues around conceiving a baby. Having a 2 miscarriages/preterm labors, uterine fibroid and polyps I have become pretty knowledgeable about this issue
-1	When I got diagnosed with HPV I didnt know what to do. I was told about a risk for cancer and I panicked. I had to research for signs to see if I have ovarian cancer then my mom encouraged me to call the nurse to ask further questions. She calmed my nerves. Then I got a colposcopy and the doctor didnt see anything. I was less scared but also more worried about passing to along to someone. This is when I did further research. Now I'm just waiting on 2 years for the virus to disappear. 
1	I started experiencing flashers and floaters in my left eye.  I researched it online and found out it is a sign of a detached retina.  I made an eye appointment and was told I had a detached retina.  I had eye surgery and successfully completed all follow up instructions. 
-1	I  dont really know what your asking me at this time I cant think of anything very sorry knowing comes to mind
1	I was given eye muscle surgery 10 years ago. I had already researched all information necessary about general anesthesia, post-surgery medications to take at home and possible side effects so that I would be well-equipped if something came up and I would know what to ask the doctor.
-1	wrong number and get blocked in the actual world of outlaws and get blocked in the actual world of outlaws and get blocked in the actual world of outlaws and get blocked in the actual world of outlaws and get blocked 
-1	During my pregnancies, i learned a lot about my body. It has opened my eyes to my health and being healthy.
-1	Years ago I performed private duty nursing in a group home facility. It was among the list of my duties to do patient accessments, administer medications, make/keep/report adverse reactions among the patients. I also provided in-home care for relatives and aided in the decision making regarding their medical/health issues.
-1	I don't really have an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues 
-1	Have never been told or been given this kind of info before..............I have no reference on anything like this
-1	a few years ago I broke my arm . the EMTS said it was a sprain. xrays proved that it was broken. a lot of things have been proven wrong by me over doctor's diagnosis in the doctor's office and I have ended up in the emergency room.
-1	I don't know as much as I should about possible health issues. I should really research how much of a risk I have for cancer and heart attacks
-1	In 2007 my mother was diagnosed with skin cancer the doctor removed the cancerous tumor in 2010 the cancer return with a vengeance she pass in January 2011 for three months I took care of my mother by changing her wounds and me starting her medication daily 
-1	I know some things about health, and medicine issues but need to learn more because they have  some things I do not understand, and some things I do.
-1	In two mammograms, I was required to come back for further testing.  It was determined that I have dense breasts which often cause a false positive reading.  I now expect that to occur whenever I have a mammogram.  I do not get as tense anymore now that I know that my breasts are dense.
-1	Keeping myself well and exercising taking medication as directed you shouldn't have any problems maintaining anything
-1	The information was very informative and interesting and i also believe it wiil help others as well and also be very helpful in the future as well to others
-1	as far as I can remember- i went to the dentist for a regular check up only to find out that i had two cavities that i was unaware of , was stunned since i floss and clean my teeth like i clean my face- thoroughly
-1	I just took a biology final and there was a section on the test about the human body and i needed to label body parts and know the names of molecule.
-1	I've had meningitis, so I has to get a spinal tap in 1997. In 2005 I had my gallbladder taken out. In 2005 I had another surgery to remove an infection from the removal of my gallbladder. I had surgery on my hand, my mouth. I also think I'm going to need knee surgery soon.
1	I was in the hospital when I found out I was diabetic and before I was released I talked to someone about counting carbs to ensure I stayed within the healthy range. It did not take long to get the concept.
1	I have numerous family members with a variety of health problems. I go to the doctors with them and am able to understand the doctors and explain information to family in ways that are easy for them to  understand 
-1	had a loss of vision when I have really bad coughs and had no idea why. So I researched on google why that happens and saw the explanation why that happens
1	It was recommended that I have major female surgery after a number of operations. Instead, I sought a second opinion after doing extensive research and located a physician in a neighboring state willing to do the surgery. We arranged for the testing to be done locally and results were forwarded to him. We drove in, and the following day did a pre -surgery eval. I did indeed have options and extreme surgery was not necessary.  The following morning I had the surgery, rested overnight and returned home the following day. Thanks to the use of lasers and a highly skilled doctor, no further surgeries were necessary. I was very pleased with the outcome.
-1	I am in great health I exercise daily eat a plant base diet and have a positive attitude, I treat people the way I want to be treated 
-1	I have had an overactive thyroid every since I was 18 years old. I have been on the pill since them and will have to take a pill for the rest of my life.
-1	Well I read a lot of books and I do a lot of research on the internet. I also ask my doctor a.lot of questions
1	I never had a moment where I needed to demonstrate my knowledge of health, outside of any health class where a test was involved. 
-1	Recto dunno tho dunno dunno turnip turnip think tho full tho full Rubio ergo  Rubio Rubio full syrup Rubio tho thump zero full full full. Tho high-up
-1	When my auntie died from cancer, I felt like the medicine she was taking made it worse for her. It's like the medicine helped killed her.
-1	I have had to assist in caring for several family members with different health issues. The range in meds to Dr . Appointments were all different.
-1	I really dont know. I have no reason to think about this . I am pretty healty I walk a lot.In my life if you use you wont loss it.
-1	I was in the hospital once for a week straight I was diagnosed with diverticulitis you miss a condition where your stomach intestines are Jagged and it catches food and I had swelling in my intestines and it won't allow me to pass my bowels
-1	Food people or the union we are are the end the end of age as quilt and he wthe people of he united States of the American w em are enjoying end o ag ND people are cool an fun the from ad dmedkdriekde djeirjd. Really Dr fmrkdfmrfi d efkd fjdek to do the trick f f the room and it takes a little bit ago and have the best gym and I underwear is a wonderful and have the the from starving I all that I all good good bank and have the from ad and it shines and have any good bank an an an MD in myo is good good good to the from ad I've and have
-1	I don't really have much experience as far as medical issues but I do know to watch out for any size that going on my body that is abnormal
1	One day I was at work and a coworker had complained about having symptoms of excessive thirst, change in visions and feeling fatigued. I informed her that those were signs of type 2 diabetes and suggest she see her primary care doctor 
-1	Friend's baby was choking on vomit, helped them through my CPR training that was required for my health studies major.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrates I am knowledgeable of health and medical issues occurred 10 years ago during a surgery. The medical staff outlined the entire procedure prior to admission.
-1	I have had none I never had to use medication to use so I know nothing about  don't even have insurance so I HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE that is involved in this type of information
-1	I have none right now. If I have any issues I would ask doctor questions on what my concerns are. No issues at this time
-1	when i was told i had type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure and was scared as i dont know what that was not a great experience
-1	I done research on eczema and I found out it was a food allergy and I also did research on ulcers and I found what foods are good for me.
-1	Health issues are solvable as far as getting the right medicines to prevent heart attacks/strokes in the near future
-1	When I was first diagnosed with diabetes I was referred to a class by my doctor there I learned about the disease how to take care of myself how important losing weight is and maintaining a healthy weight can keep the disease controlled......at this time I do not take any medicine for diabetes its been controlled over two years by diet and exercise
-1	When my son began having increased digestive problems and was repeatedly not getting any relief despite doing what the doctor said, I took all of his symptoms and stepped outside of the situation. I concluded that UE had some type of inflammatory or blockage condition, thinking that his problem with circulation and cold feet may actually be related to his frequent vomiting, even though it didn't appear to necessarily connected. I finally demanded an upper GI and a colonoscopy for definitive testing. Turned out he has Crohns.
-1	I was diagnosed with Sleep Apnea in 2014, since being diagnosed with sleep apnea I have been trying to manage my weight, eat right, and exercise to get off my Cpap machine
-1	My sister and mother had cancer and  I spent a significant  amount of time researching the type of  car they had and questions  there Dr on the best care
-1	When my baby's heart beat went down and my blood pressure went up and I  was having hot and cold flashes 
-1	I took a health science class my junior year in high school. My aunt is in the health field also so I learn a little from her
-1	My mother just had surgery. By the look of her scar, I knew she had an infection. I told the Dr but he didnt believe me. He discharged her and had to admit her back. 
-1	I've had a few health classes that taught me a little and of course personal experiences. Just looking around at everyone around me and looking at what they are going through and how they got out of it. Also my mom knows a ton about getting over colds.
-1	I have a lot of knowledge regarding my health and medical issues because I always make sure to ask my physician questions and do research
-1	When I was diagnised with an ectopic pregnancy that needed emergency surgery, I looked up and researched 
-1	I am a kinseology major and we have to know about health because we are constantly learning about the body and how it works and what makes it works better.
-1	Well  don't know that much about all these questions and answers,  did not know I was going to take care test,
-1	In a few sentences, I can elaborate and describe an experience in my own life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues. I took health classes in high school and I stay on Google to obtain all types of information. I also ask close friends and family members. 
-1	Seeing my dad experience health issues after he was diagnosed with diabetes. And me reading about signs and symptoms.
-1	I have many experiences with medication and classes at college long term care and medication aide was what I went to school for 
1	Every morning I used to throw up from my acid reflex. So i went into the doctor and they prescribed me a pill to help my acid reflex and ever since I listened to the doctor and took the pills my stomach feels a lot better.
-1	I would say it was when I was at my most recent doctor's appointment. The doctor asked about some symptoms that I had and when I started to get them and how long I have had them for
-1	The ability to take medicines and monitor my body's progress and reactions to medicines.bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
-1	I gave no medical knowledge in healthcare or medical issues like these in this survey thus far. Doctors do not explain what is going on in your body and its your body.
-1	I'm not a professional or an expert I don't know that much or as much as I think I should no. I probably need to look more into it or get more info and be aware.
-1	I demonstrated my medical knowledge during a test in high school. We learned CPR in my health class and I demonstrated how to proceed to receive a certificate
-1	i have some health conditions that are treatable like diabetes high colestrol which can be treatable  i take mediciations that are percribed by the doctor one of them is under control and the other one needs a little more attention.
-1	I have lyemphomic leukemia. I was dignosted 2 years ago. it is not to the stage where I have to have treatments. the doctor is keeping a very close eye. but I have learned more than I want to about the symtoms you may or may never have or get. but it makes me aware how fragile we are as we get older and you should read and check out lots of medical problems for your age group whether you ever have anything or not
-1	I went to college to study exercise science. And we covered alot of material on health issues and ways to prevention. 
-1	High blood pressure and diabetes run in my family and I am very aware of what to look out for and how to help prevent it
-1	One time I went to the Doctor my blood pressure was so high. They keep me for observation to see if it would go down and it did. I was just over worked and stressed about losing my dad.
-1	I have been had surgery on my big toes, left boob to remove a ball of fat and on my Achilles. I have learned a little bit of something but it doesn't over qualify me.
-1	Nothing. There helpfully and they work hard to get you healthy . They help you get will and better. They know how to fix health things
-1	had a pain in my side. knew it was a kidney stone and drank  alot of water. then went to the doctor afterwards
-1	At a young age, I had a a false positive for a mammogram.  What was a lump scar o my turned out to be a cyst. 
-1	I have no medical history.. in the future I pray to have non either. I wish to never have medical history 
1	I experienced heart pallpitations, arm tremors, sweating and a sensation that I was about to faint. I self-diagnosed that I was either experiencing a stroke or heart-related event, immediately took several aspirin with water, sat down and practiced deep breathing while I waited for emergency assistance (911). I was diagnosed after tests as having an Ischemic Stroke and may have saved my own life and/or avoided physically delibitating side effects with the steps that I took.
-1	I like to do research. I always like to know what's going on with my body what am I supposed to do how am I supposed to eat I do research all the time and I when I go to the cleaning I talked to Dr ask all kind of question about how to leave healthy what to eat. What to avoid and how to stay healthy so all kind of knowledge is combined together they can help me understand a lot more done anybody who just assume
-1	I think an experience that demonstrates my understanding is my ability to take this survey even though it is all new to me.
-1	Having to make decisions about surgery on my eyes after a doctor told me I was at risk for a retinal detachment. 
-1	When I was younger. I got a very bad sinus infection, I had a very bad h headache, fever, and sinus pressure.they ran all kind of test to figure out what was the problem.. Years later my niece was experiencing the same symptoms, they ran test, car scans and everything else they could think of.  I kept telling them about our family history with sinus problems, they finally listened. And the problem was solved.
-1	My issue was excellent I have no problems as of yet but I just want to take care myself is the healthy 
-1	Pooling cook travel appreciation is much deeper than your liking for someone. words are dense when trying to show love sometimes physical attraction has a lot of peo
-1	"Simply understanding the difference between HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol. This happened several years ago during my routine annual. Until then, I only knew my ""total"" cholesterol level. Since then, I've been successful at lowering my LDL."
-1	Well, my child has epilepsy and I had to read up on it and when it happened I had to lay her on her side make her comfy and let it take its course
-1	Don't worry about a thing because every little thing is gonna be alright . don't mess with me man. Man amongst boys. Things are good. 
-1	After I had surgery procedure, I had to follow up with the doctors orders. I was aboe to follow them without much difficulty or clarification
1	When I went in to have a scheduled cesarean with my twins I was thoroughly informed of the procedures before and after surgery.
-1	I once went to the ER and they did an EKG and because of m experience as a ekg tech I was able to deduce from the ekg strip that I had an abnormal heart rhythm
-1	A time in my life that I encountered or experience health or medical attention was when I gave birth. I went to the Doctor visits and was given medical attention and  advice on how to eat right and the process of what my body and baby was going through through the various trimesters.
-1	?... I Don't know I Don't have no knowledge for health or medical issues. i have no experience in my I Just Know a heart attack is a heart attack it sometines runs in blood high doses of drugs or diabetes by eating certsin foods. Colds are highley contagious usually  get sick so obvious theres a 90% chance I will  so I Don't know or understasd percentages and not willing to undertand. Excersing and eating helps the body the heary and all of inmune system. Soo... Thats all I know. 
-1	There isn't any but I'm typing in here so I can go forward in this survey.  I guess all my diabetic study may qualify like this 
-1	A family member I know was diagnosed with high blood pressure and nothing they were doing was able to bring it down. I was able to tell them what foods to eat in order to bring it down because I had studied about it earlier.
-1	Oh OK I'm just watching TV n the difference from my right leg is swollen and looking for a second to meet you too Derrick
-1	I have family members that have had many medical stuff and had to have many things done and many medicines to have
-1	I had a severe asthma attack which I was suffacating from the inside.  In ICU for two weeks just to stablize my breathing. Found out a lot more about asthma during that time.
-1	I really don't know what to do nowadays.i need help like God please come and help me.i just need some help god
-1	I was once expose to someone who wanted to take overdose medication and I know the impact of taking overdose medication. It can be death or an increase in illness . I explain to the person the dangers of their action and they seem to listen to me
-1	I've had arthroscopic knee surgery, needle biopsy for a mass found during a mammogram, and surgery to remove one ovary, my uterus, and my cervix. Multiple family members have had cancer.  Know lots of people with health issues.
-1	I have not had the time or even had any kind of thoughts that i was ever in that bad of a position but i have always made sure i would never be put in that situation ever
-1	I went to the doctor about my foot pain.  When she told me that I have arthritis, she made me feel welcome by explaining my issue.
-1	I am a dietbetic so good measurement is part of my lifestyle to reaching positive health and possibly reducing meds
-1	I went to the doctor once and they informed me of my health issues and tbsy used medical terms that I understood. 
-1	when i was having a bowel movement at work i had blood in my had blood in my stool , informed the doctor and they found cancer in my colon 
-1	I don't know please let's get to the next point I don't understand the question cause I am confused ccvfhbdtbcarbcdfhbxy fgdjgy fjggawuvy gsdkb hxrsijjlvhzr fzfjj
-1	Told as a teenager that my white blood count was low- always searching to know what that means and how it effects my internal system.
1	" Was able to clearly describe an ulnar nerve subluxation to a orthopedic surgeon who was trying to figure out what an injury was that caused my arm to be unable to straighten at my elbow, immense pain and the feeling that my ulnar moved from the center of my body, over my shoulder, out of where it sits in its ""funny bone"" position over my elbow and back again into place. "
-1	I have only had to deal with medical issues when it came to my children not too.many when it comes to myseld
-1	The only thing I can do is say that the fact that the people who are not in the same way that the people who are not in the same way that the people who are not in their way that it would make any difference. 
-1	Being diagnosed with diabetes. Mine was never out of control but prior to being officially diagnosed I was pre diabetic and I had some of the symptoms including obesity and slightly elevated fasting glucose readings which indicated it. 
-1	I had to tell my physicians assistant that I might have low blood and the test confirmed that I had become anemic she was non chalant about it though
-1	I'm sorry but you didn't mean to put you down to do it that way too much but I didn't mean you something else lol lol I just thought I said I don't want it lol 
-1	I recently did a specimen for colon cancer screening to which I had deposited a small amount of fecal matter on a stick that was placed back in a bio hazardous bottle dated and wrapped with a absorbent tissue pack so that it's content could be placed in a sealed plastic bag which had to be sent in a cardboard envelop through the mail... 
1	I was talking to another patient in my doctor's office about acupuncture in pregnancy and related issues. Apparently my doctor overheard me, and since then has mistaken me for a doula, since I seemed very informed on pregnancy health options.
-1	2 years ago I found out from my doctor that I had kidney stones due to lack of water consumption. I still need to do better each day.
-1	I WENT TO THE HOSPITAL ABOUT TO MONTH AGO BECAUSE I WAS DRINK TO MUCH OF COFFEE AND SODA AND NOT DRINKING ENTHER WATER SO I HAD TO GET MORE FLUID IN MY BODY.
1	My family history and being interested in the human body and how it functions in general. Also the health concerns in the black community and Americans in general.
-1	Three years ago I had a total hip replacement, during that time I learned a lot about different infections that can be effective prior to the surgery, and must be cleared up. I learned of a medical condition of the mouth called periodontal disease which is an infection of the gums that causes a bad case of plaque build up on the teeth. I had to go through extensive dental visits before my actual surgery to prevent infection in the hip.
-1	I have been a licensed practical nurse for 10 years. So I feel that a moderate knowledge of medical issues as I no longer work in hospitals. 
-1	I had a fatty liver. It might be an ongoing thing. I spoke to my doctor regularly on this issue. This has been a topic I had to learn.
-1	When I had to take care of my grandmother after she was treated for cancer, I had to take care of her when she got home from the hospital
-1	I always do research online and ask doctors questions if I have concerns or are curious about something.
1	Breast cancer taught me how little I know about the cancer and its treatments.  I did a lot of research and discovered that there are many treatments and some unscrupulous doctors who will perform unnecessary treatment for financial gain.  This was a rude awakening and I learned from this that my health is my responsibility and that I should be proactive in obtaining information about my medications and conditions.
-1	I dont have an experiences where I was able to demonstrate knowledge of my health or medical issues. 
-1	I have been having problems with my ears bothering me. I have been having pain on and off and it was hard tolerate being outside when it was windy outside. I knew I had to have fluid in my ears that was causing the pain. The doctor confirmed that I had fluid in my middle ears
-1	since i'm on dialysis i know what type of foods to eat and how much fluids i ca drink in a day. i know what to have for snacks and what exercises to do.
-1	I have raised many of children in my life and I have had to deal with a lot of colds,fevers,and all that goes with it. But the hardest was when my youngest developed asthma.
-1	I had pain in my chest ,I had this before so I went in to be checked realizing that I could potentially have a clot . It turned out I did not . I at least followed my doctor's advice to go be seen right away because of past clots.
-1	I do my own breast exams every month. I check my temperature and I know my body very well. If I feel like something is wrong I do to the doctor 
-1	I have no experience or full knowledge of medical issues. Have not been to see a doctor or gone to the hospital for a while.
-1	When I was pregnant with my daughter I tested positive for gestational diabetes.  I was not able to manage my glucose levels with just diet alone.  About half way throught I was prescribed medication.
1	I felt like that was easy enough and that I can know my health and medical issues if i am exposed to them.  I feel like this survey is helping my understanding of all of the health and medically related issues in my life at the moment.
-1	High blood pressure I can't really say because I try to stay healthly by walking and eating better so I don't have any problems
-1	I have eczema. Before seeing a dermatologist I just thought I has bad skin. I didn't know I had a severe allergic reaction to insect bites. My doctor has given me talks and pamphlets about the difference in a regular bite reaction and a full blown break out of hives.
-1	 I only have personal experience as far as things in my life to demonstrate my knowledge. The questions in this survey have caused me stress as I don't understand a lot of what I'm reading. 
-1	When I had to get my wisdom teeth removed, I had to know what effects it would have on me in the future and if it was worth having the surgery in the first place
-1	What demonstrated my health is knowing the medical history of my family andv worrying that in some ways I could have the same findings and that's scary 
-1	When I became a donor. I donated my left kidney back in 1998,I asked many questions the doctor gave me pamphlets, books and live testimony from pawed donors.
-1	When I pt was asking questions about IUDs. I was able to tell the patients the pros and cons of IUDS
1	I have high blood pressure. I have to know what the numbers mean when I take my blood pressure. I once started swelling all over and knew I needed to go to the hospital because my blood pressure was high. When I got the hospital it was 180/120 and I had to take medicine right away to lower my blood pressure. Since then I have really had to watch and understand my condition. 
1	Having to go through the whole disability process to get my benefits I often reviewed my medical records as well as researched their findings. It allowed me to talk with attorney and explain things to judge at hearing.
-1	Because i experience health problems or know people that have health problems. Flaws elements etc. Information informative
-1	I have depression and anxiety. I've had it for almost 10 years. I take medication for both. I've been going to these facilities for at least 3 years
-1	i am focusing on my heath now that i am older so i can live a lot longer. by excessing by walking and eating right i sometimnes indulge not all the time
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I have a cold or the flu I always take home remedies and after a few days I get well.
1	While not a doctor and not a real emergency, often people get nose bleeds and everyone tilts their head back. I tell them you should tilt your head forward so that the blood doesn't go back into your throat and clot.
-1	My training in medical billing and coding as well as paying attention to labels when grocery shopping 
-1	i was a care giver for my mom as i become familiar with prescriptions i use a medical dictionary to help me learn names of drugs and side affects it can create to also make the same double amount of drugs are correct or can cause serious side effects
-1	I graduated with my Doctorate of Physical Therapy and passed my licensure exam and have to read MRIs to patients 
-1	I can't think of any experience I had concerning health or medical issues. I don't think I had those types  of issues  so far.
-1	Well at this time I do not have any medical issues that have demonstrated knowledge well yes I do have a couple of relatives that were diagnosed with cancer so I know from their experience
-1	I KNEW THE BLOOD FLOW WAS GOOD IN MY LEGS AND THE DOCTORS WHICH WERE SPECIALIST GAVE ME CREDIT FOR KNOWING THAT
-1	I'm quite interested in dermatology, so their have been a couple of experiences where I've been knowledgable about certain procedures. In some instances, I've even asked about specific treatments myself prior to my doctor's suggestion.
-1	i JUST NEED TO DO BETTER BECUSE I FEEL LIKE A FAT ASS AND MY STOMAH IWLL NOT GO DONW BECAUSE I HAVE DIGESTIVE PROBLEMS
-1	I would say me going to the hospital more anf more helped demonstrate my expertise on health issues in life
1	Throughout high school I have always been adept at medical related things. I have a genuine interest in the subject so I have always done well. I went to state for HOSA every year that I chose to compete. I also made high marks in my CNA certification class. I am constantly surrounded by the health issues of others which sparks my curiosity so that just leads me to go home and learn even more.
-1	I was with a family member who was hospitalized and the nurse dropped off some forms to be signed. I understood better what the medical terms meant regarding pain medication so I was able to explain what it meant.
-1	I stopped myself from taking certain medications because they made me have allergic reactions.  I Monitor my medications to ensure im not having bad reactions to them
1	After finding out that I had some showings of lactose intolerance I was able to apply the knowledge of my health issue to understand what foods I can and can't have
-1	This girl went into a seizure, and I knew to make sure that she didn't either swallow her own tongue or bite it off.
-1	I was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis,  lupus,  and rheumatoid arthritis. When the doctor informed me that he was diagnosing me with these illnesses,  I knew exactly what they were about and what the treatments consisted off.  So I did not have to taught about the illnesses. 
-1	When I was younger I diagnosed myself with having Hyperthyroidism. I went to my Gynecologist with a list of Endocrinologists and asked him which did he think was better. I was later treated and have been on medication every since. I've also diagnosed other illnesses for myself and others.
-1	I was preparing for open heart surgery I was able to inform the doctor that I wanted a certain type of valve. I had research and followed this valve for 10 years previously to know exactly what I wanted.
-1	An experience in my life that helped me better understand health issues was when my mom was admitted into the hospital when I was 9... it was a hard time for me and I had to learn a lot real fast 
-1	When I had contacted certain medical ailments, I l conducted research using the world wide web in order to effectively treat said ailment 
-1	I know that my health is very good and it's almost better then all my friends.Another thing is that all I do is drink water.
-1	not sure i have had an experience like that maybe when i am discussing working out or nutitrtion with regards to bodybuilding or similar
-1	I don't like this survey. It is starting to become boring. This is definitely taking too long to complete.
-1	Making sure I'm eating right working out right and keeping a good eye on my health as I go on about my day 
-1	That medications doesn't always work for everyone especially if they have a high tolerance for drugs such as myself 
-1	I have PCOS. I researched the symptoms and talked to my doctor about it. She agreed that I had PCOS and we worked together to identify some lifestyle changes that might help reverse the condition or alleviate symptoms
-1	After attending a medical check up, the doctor and I discussed how I could gain weight. We also talked about the effects of drinking protein powder on my kidneys.
-1	had an angegram was told i could have some plaque build up or may need stents inserted turned out to be not so, fiat experience  for something like this.
-1	I truly have never had any major health issues other than sinus infection and I try not go to the doctors for any small ache or pain so I always try to self medicate myself  with OTC drugs which usually will cure it but at this point nothing was helping. I went on line and googled my symptoms and Web MD and a couple other sites which gave me a few diagnoses and I was able to pinpoint what my issue maybe so when I went in to the clinic I was able to provide the physician with my symptoms and he to came up with the same prognoses of sinus infection. So now when those same symptoms pop up I am well aware that I have a sinus infection
-1	I have not had extensive training in medical issues. Therefore, my knowledge of health or medical is limited at best.
-1	I had a stroke in 2007 that left no outward effects.  Then in 2008, I was diagnosed with Lupus.  I have ongoing medical issues that I have to maintain and could not do so without knowledge of medical issues.
-1	math skills, trying to figure out if i can ad, divide subtract number or think i can. I think my numbers are screwed to be honest
-1	I was 19 and had a pulmonary embolism. Afterwards that made me become more aware of my health and medical issues. I also keep up with my family history.
-1	I was very sick...I felt tired all the time and stayed hungry. I sweated very ofteneen when it was cold.I stayed thirsty all the time and could not satisfy my thrist no matter how hard I tried..I knew what it all meant...I was either diabetic or boarder line diabetic.
-1	I know that bad health can make you have bad health so good lifestyles can help you in the long run to stay health
-1	I don't know.   I read WebMD, Google, etc.  I look at the news. I talk to family members.   I read patient testimony. 
-1	Don't really know much about health other than the fact that this survey has questions that seem pointless
-1	I know there are certain check ups annually n there r ways to bring the blood pressure down high cholesterol down I know proper diets
-1	I have hardly ever have had to use my knowledge of health or medical insures to help in any experiences in my life
-1	I went to a endocrinologist who diagnosed me with hypoglycemia. This doctor prescribed byetta. I informed the doctor that byetta is for patients with high blood sugar and he said that is correct. I reminded him that hypoglycemia is low blood sugar. I asked him would I be correct to say by taking this drug would lower my  blood sugar and at that time he said you are correct. He then told me he had forgot that I suffer with low blood sugar.
-1	My mother is a nurse so she tries to keep me informed on what is going on. Also my dad works in a hospital so he is very knowledgeable. 
-1	A year and a half ago, I was called back to retake a mammagram due to an abnormal reading.  Upon returning to retake the mammogram, the test still showed something.  I had to have it retaken for a third time and because it showed some breast density, I had to have a mammogram done to rule out cancer.  the mammogram did just that.
-1	i have no experience or knowledge of health or medical issues, i don't go to the hospital that much and rarely see a doctor.
-1	when i was getting tested for diabetes the first year my number were up a little but through careful eat and supplements went down 25 points
-1	I understand that obesity has severe consequences on your overall health. Heart disease, hypertension, and stroke are a few of the health issues related to obesity
-1	I almost died eating a bunch of cat a dog shit when I was 11 years old , it was a dare and I was tremendously stupid and humiliated . I followed simple directions to recover .
-1	I don't really know bout health or medical issues because I don't know certain things that deal with it.
-1	Being diagnosed with diabetes at the age of 23 I had to learn at a young age to manage numbers for my best life long result
-1	I usually learned this in my health class about how to calculate stuff and also this waa basic math if you know your stuff so yeah. also l like math and math is fun.
1	A family member being diagnosed with diabetes and a family history of health problems has made me more aware of medical issues 
-1	Just that people doesn't take the time to get a checkup to make sure they healthy enough. They are taking risk of their health and this issue of people of having serious health problems. 
-1	Going to the doctor to discuss my son's issues with asthma and a new medication he was prescribed.  This medication was shown to possibly cause heart attacks in African American adult males.  Although my son was not an adult at the time, I wanted to discuss the risks to him at that time if he took the medicine.  We ended up taking him off the medication to be safe
-1	My blood pressure was highmy doctor reduced by 50%percentage rate.With percentage I have better chance my blood pressure be okay
1	for a nut allergy I know to avoid nuts and to carry and epipen.  Also know if an epipen is not available to take benadryl.
-1	I don't know too to much about my health and medical issues internally. i can describe the symptoms and try to decipher it from there.
-1	When my daughter had a baby I was able to tell her what to exspect and explain things that were goung on. When she got scared I was able to calm her down with cofidence 
-1	I have not had any health or medical issues the would demonstrate my knowledge. The only thing that I have had are the common cold and a twisted ankle.
1	I found blood in my stool and by tracking my symptoms and checking online, I was able to narrow down what could be causing the blood prior to going to the doctor for a check up.
-1	I just had a mammogram I had to go back because  he couldn' see my left breast on the xray all is good. They was doing  it from my wheelchair
-1	I don't care about his too much please stop I just want my dollar djdgdjkksjb this is ridiculous I can't even Allen and i I and allen
-1	I don't know how to describe and experience about health or medical issues. I never went the school for this stuff. And I'm not a doctor. And I'm don't know what else to say.
-1	I had ovarian cancer and when i finished chemo i found out I had diabetes type 2.  I also have sleep apnea and suffer from depression.
-1	have bot had any bad experiience so far but have been close to having high choralr once but was told what i had to to do and thats just what i did
-1	I really not good with numbers so I Google or call the doctor to ask what it means. The internet helps me to understand things better 
-1	Me eating to much sugar and me literally having a head ache because of all the sugar also me not having my periods just proves that I do have pcos and my hairy back and face shows that I do to so yeah
-1	Fear....I am not the healthiest person on earth. i did not realize that I needed a calculator to take this survey
-1	Wheb one of my kids were sick. After taking to the hospital they still didn't know what was wrong. I stayed calm and got the doctor to learn her symptoms.
-1	I had a preemie. I had to learn about every diagnosis, surgery and medicine that they gave him. I have to use my medical knowledge to determine if he needs medical attention.
-1	I am not good at month so my numbers are completely off. Some onewould new to explain it to me very carefully 
-1	Being a diabetic has been a life lessons on how to use insulin and how to check  blood sugar levels. Adjusting for blood sugar taking in effect diet and insulin to fine the range you are shooting for. You have to understand how to operate the meter, test strips and the solution for accruates. I had to take classes dealing with my diet what not to eat looking for sugar on labels. 
-1	I was prescribed 1,800mg of a medication 4 times a day. I actually took 600mg 3 times a day. Which was one dose of what was prescribed.
-1	When visiting my sick mother in law at the hospital, I was able to relay that information so all could understand. I had command of what we were told by the staff..
-1	I been admitted to the hospital because I had a diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure so I had to understand my situation well so I can change my life style to have more healthier life 
-1	I use my knowledge of cold and allergy to self assessment conditions in my household . I also can perform basic first aide and CPR 
-1	One day I was jumping too much without warming up or stretching so it put a lot of pressure on my knees which caused them to hurt. I couldn't run or jump without any pain. I decided to spend a month and 3 weeks icing my knees, stretching my lower body and doing lower bodyweight workouts like squats and lunges. No running or jumping occurred during this time period. It actually worked and I was able to run and jump pain free again. This taught me the importance of stretching and warming up.
-1	I have had broken tendes on my great to my doctor was very nice and gental to me made sure I understood what was going on with my toe gave me meds for pain could not a better doctor
-1	my mom had cancer the process is long around the clock doctors chemo. the doctors are very hard to work with and they do not care at all
-1	My friends blood pressure was high and I checked her temperature and seen if she was ok and then I called the doctor 
-1	I try to remind others to be aware of the medications they take and ask their doctor many questions.
-1	After 58 years, I just know my own body. Couple my personal knowledge with biology and some health magazines, I just figured out some problems. I felt like my throat was closing up and something was in my chest. I di have acid reflux and a hernia in my esophagus.
-1	I have a lot of detailed talks with my doctors and try to have myself as informed as I can before studying medicine myself. I am in no way a real doctor nor to I qualify but I have always found it interesting. 
-1	In the past I've been able to determine a the signs of seizure in a family member and I knew the steps to take to best help them.
-1	When I go to the doctor I always ask him about my health, blood pressure, weight. I ask him the necessary questions
-1	I used to be a nurses assistant in high school and i used knowledge of diagnosis on the students to tell them what was wrong with them
-1	I was participation in a online health group with regualar visits to the doctors to check cholesterol and other blood tests
-1	Some times it's hard for me to tell if I hve a kidney infection or a rinary tract infection.When I get one of these infections it is easy for me to tell which is whic before I make a trip to the doctor's office. 
1	i don't have much knowledge however when i was in the hospital as a child, i did realize when the x-ray techs took the x-rays differently and wasn't afraid to tell them.
-1	i did not have those experience yet and i pray that i don't with my medical issue am very health i take care of my self
-1	I can't really say, I do have some medical issues that I try and read up on. I'll read blog posts, forums, health magazines and ask others about their personal experiences.
-1	I have been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome.  Therefore, I've researched the symptoms and possible remedies besides surgery to alleviate the pain and numbness that comes as a result of this issue.
-1	Husband was diagnosed with possible leukemia but after many questions was later determined high white blood cell and ulcers
1	When my friend had injured himself playing basketball, I was able to adequately hell him patch up with my knowledge.
-1	There hasn't been many times I've demonstrated my knowledge  of health or medical issues unless a family member asks me. I only know basic health things, but nothing too complicated.
-1	I read a lot of medical journals and i visit a lot of mefical sites on the computer watch a lot of medical shows
-1	Have not really experienced or demonstrated a knowledge of health or medical issues in my life time that can exactly say
-1	Nothing in particular. Just things i learn in school,doctors, or family and friends. i don't consider myself an expert in health or medicial issues
-1	Had a friend call that she need to go to hospital.  So I went to her home finding her sweating and larthergic. I called 911 and told them she was diabetic.  After, checking her blood sugar it was over 200.  She was taking by ambulance and the next day she had her big toe amputated.
1	I can't think of anything that would describe an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	The to be a good day at work and I will get it done by the way to get it done by the way to take care always be my friend and  
-1	The doctor told me that my rest results showed a possible infection. I was to take some medicine with lots of water every day and come back in two weeks to get rested. I took all the medicine and returned to the doctor for follow up testing.
1	I have a premed education, attained MPH and worked as an IRB Administrator. I also have research experience as well.
-1	I have been interested in the medical field since I was in high school so it took me taking a couple classes that made me stay interested in looking up my own information
-1	i have not hand any serious medical issues in my life. i am in good health. so i have nothing to write about for this queston
-1	I haven't really had any I try to stay as healthy and in good shape as I can and exercise often so I will be healthy and well
-1	I have very limited knowledge of medical and health issues.  I am diabetic, obese, have had several serious surgeries, have been hospitalized for months, and have arthritis.  I have some knowledge of some about the things I have experienced; no formal education.  Just life experience is my education.
-1	Aside from consulting my physician, I often check the webmed.com to know about many illness and I talk to friend who have knowledge in the issue too.
-1	When I gotten beaten by a spider I looked up the side effects of it and it said I could have cancer if I didn't check it out so I did and it was true and I got it cut open and stitched back up 
-1	Really haven't had one because I somewhat try to be positive and think of a greater outcome then a negative one 
-1	There have been a few instances where I had to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues. I've had acquaintances inform me about pains or discomfort, and I would be familiar with the symptoms and give them accurate information regarding how to treat it. Other instances include having to fill out documents at the dentist's office. 
-1	I was born in 1958 and I have a history of polio, so I reserched all any thing about the dreadful diesease to see if there are any cures for it
-1	Life is really serious so people need to take care of there body.. Because life is too short now a days 
-1	I was a practicing nurse at one point in my life. I also have several medical conditions that helps me with my knowledge.
-1	I remember having a pain in my tube near my lower left stomach area that would hurt if I moved to the left or while riding in a car. I went to the emergency ward at 3:AM and after examination I was told I had walking pneumonia. I checked in about 1 hour later. 
-1	I just recently found a lump in my breast and went to the doctor I was scared it was going to be cancer but it turned out to be a cyst
-1	Well I learned a lot once I was diagnosed with hodgkins lymphoma. Prior to that i did not know much about good health
-1	I do not have an experience in my life that demostrates my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I just take what the doctor's diagnoses.
-1	I make sure I keep all my doctor appointment I take all my medicine, I try and exercise, and not allow stress get the best of me. When I feel overwhelmed I stop and breathe
-1	I work in the hospital and educate patients on their health problems. I inform them to ask any and all questions and do my best to answer and refer 
-1	I can not think of anything. The only knowledge I have is to check my symptoms on WebMD. I do not have any other medical knowledge.
-1	I always keep track of my health and if I am experiencing any problems with my health. I would likely monitor my health
1	I have worked with an obstetrician when it came to infertility. I read several articles from academic journal to learn about options before I went to see the health care professional to get the best information on my options.
-1	Growning up i had to help take care of my family. I had to give them insulin because the are diabetic
-1	When I was trying to get pregnant after many  miscarriages and by my third if cycle  I felt pretty well versed in my prognosis 
-1	I know that many medications we take as a whole is going to have some kind of side effects. Thats why it's best for body to heal naturally.
-1	I never had a health issue before in my life. My body as been in good health throughout my life so I dont know how to answer that question 
-1	I do not know for sure.  I knew when I was pregnant that I could get a medical issue, but it would not last.  The medical issue would go away after the pregnancy.
1	several years ago, I had a friend whose doctor told her she should have a hysterectomy because she had fibroids.  when she called me she was crying because she wanted children and would no longer be able to have any if she had the surgery. I advised her to get a second and even a third opinion because there were alternatives. She did and found a Doctor who was able to successfully remove her fibroids without doing a Hysterectomy and she now have 2 beautiful children!
-1	My son was born with an abnormal heart beat. The physicians wouldn't let us leave the hospital after he was born. We had to go to Duke Children's Hospital to get more help for him. His condition was worse than we thought. I had to listen to the doctors explanation of his condition to explain it to my family.
-1	My weight loss experiences defined my knowledge of different weight loss drugs and my issues with losing weight
-1	In my life  an experience  that demonstrates  my intelligence  of my heath or medical  issue. I was given the  wrong medication. I acknowledge  what medication  was  for.i know that  l did not have  that  issue. 
-1	In June 14 2014 I injured my back at work. I was a correction officer. A injury that after 4 weeks of rehabilitation I thought I would be healthy enough to return to work.
-1	I was walking one day and my foot started hurting The way The pain was feeling I had a hunch it was gout
-1	no major health issue  during pregnancy had a problem with gaining weight  doctors explained the importance of me eating many small meals and food supplements  
-1	When I received a call from the doctor saying that my mom was being admitted to hospice, I immediately understood that it meant she had 6 months or less to live since hospice care is meant to make a patient comfortable in the last stages of life. I was a medical claims processor and claims auditor/trainer so I was very aware of what that meant because of my claims experience.
-1	I had high blood pressure during pregnancy and understood the issues that could arise from that. I understood that I had to take medication to prevent possible issues , although I didn't want to. 
-1	Annual checkup with the doctor has given me the knowledge and the education from the doctors as well to be able to comprehend.
-1	I remember along time ago, when my husband told me the symptoms he was seeing in his mother's behavior and he didn't know what to do. I had just read an article on alzheimer's. I told him to take his mother to the doctor. It turned out sadly that she did have an onset of the disease.
-1	Well I waa diagnosed with a pe before being diagnosed witj lupus. I read up on the pe, i found out that it is a blood clot and it can form anywhere. I alwaus look up thomgs to figure out whay it is.
-1	I kept getting ear infections and I told the doctor that my previous doctor found out that my sinuses drained in my right ear. He didn't believe me at first.
1	I do not have any health or medical issues.  But I have seen it effect family members having heart attacks, diabetes, and kidney disease
1	I watch a lot of greys anatomy. My mom told me she needed to have an MRI done. I asked her if her doctor thought she had a brain tumor and she said yes. 
1	I am aware that you have to exercise and eat right to be health. I know that eating lots of fried foods can causechigh cholesterol
1	When a coworker admits that they are worried that they have appendicitis, I ask them which side of their abdomen hurts. If they say their left side, I reassure them that their appendix is on the right. 
-1	Last summer at the end of junior college year and through summer months I started having symptoms that would say that I was pregnant.. but I kept thinking no I can't be.. but then again all the right symptoms were there and I was right I was pregnant... now I have a bundle of joy
1	About 8 years ago my then 10 year old daughter was released from children's hospital after an asthma attack. She was given a new steroid medication and she was crying for no apparent reason. I got on the computer and researched the drug and learned that the drug had a myriad of side effects that were troubling. I then called her pediatric pulmonologist who was appalled that the hospital had prescribed that drug and he told me to stop right away and to bring my daughter in to see him
-1	I had a mammogram last year and received an abnormal response.  Very scary.  Had another one done and it was normal.  
1	Getting a physical in the 9th grade. I can't remember the exact words. But i corrected a doctor on something to do with the heart.
-1	I was having issues with blood in my stool.  I knew I needed to see a gastroenterologist.   I knew this wa a G. I. Issue and that something may have been going on with my colon.  I have a family history of colon cancer also. I did have a colonoscopy which revealed cancer causing polyps, however for now things are okay.
-1	going to the doctor and having test done on whta my health is. After i go to the doctor I get mailed my physical exam and in that I can what they tested and to see if anything is wrong or if everything is ok
-1	Just knowing what issues I have and taking steps to get the right kind of help needed no matter the stigma. 
-1	You never know, I dont know everybody is difference you take it as it comes. Just what I read and the doctor tell me
-1	I had heavy bleeding during my cycle. My doctor suggested that I get a uterine ablation. She said the chances of my period stopping or significantly reducing was great. I chose the ablation.
-1	I had a stroke in 2001 as a result of having surgery.  I had to go on a strict diet and could not eat any salt.
-1	I have never really had such an experience that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I have never really had any health or medical issues. I have very lucky to not have heath issues and be very healthy.
-1	I can't think of an experience which shows my medical knowledge, as I have very little of it. I've never been in a strenuous situation where my knowledge was useful.
-1	Throughout life and all my experiences, I have learned my knowledge of my health or medical history. Being a 27 year old women now in the time it is, I have learned more knowledge through my own research also.
-1	I dont have an experience in my life where it demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues at thus point.
-1	I don't have any knowledge in the medical field. That is why I go to the doctor. If I knew I wouldn't waste my time going
-1	Recognizing my symptoms, looking them up, and self-diagnosing.  Doctors agreeing with my assessment.
-1	During my third trimester of my pregnancy the doctors discovered that I had STDs. They described to me what it was, how I could've gotten rid of it, how long it would've took, and how to prevent it in the future
1	When I was diagnosed with hypertension, I was familiar with the disease as my mother has it. My mother's hypertension is controlled.
-1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy at a young age. that got me to thinking about different things in my life that I could not do.
-1	I KNEW I HAD SYPHILLIS WHEN I SAW A DISCHARGE OR SOME STD SO I ASK DR & I WAS RIGHT MY PARTNER HAD A PARTNER 7 I DINT USE PROTECTION
-1	That was extremely difficult. I wasn't anticipating that type of information. I was thinking on the lines of reading over documents provided by the doctor. I never thought about statistics and how they relate.
-1	I honestly have not had any kind of health or medical issues throughout my entire life but I have knowledge of it 
-1	have been taking my parents to doctors for years until my mom passed away have been to all kinds of doctors and have ssen so many conditions
1	"When my father died from an aortic aneurysm, my mother didn't understand whst happened to him.  I explained to her that since my father had high blood pressure for a very long time, and didn't take any meds for it, the constant pressure against his aorta weakened the walls, and once they have been weakened, it starts to bulge out.  Since there was still a constant high BP, the weakened are ""burst"", and caused him to bleed out.  The ED physician looked at me, and asked if I was a doctor.  I told him no, but I did go to school to become a RN, but never finished."
1	Had a badly sprained ankle while roller skating with my kids.  I went home and put ice on it right away for several hours.  I then treated the ankle with heat and ice while working the joint to prevent stiffness.  I was back on my feet pretty quickly after thinking i had a broken ankle initially.
-1	I can not describe an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues at this particular time.
-1	My 3 year old daughter had a stomach virus. I knew she needed to stay hydrated. I also knew she needed to rest not eat anything heavy. I monitored her temperature for two days while her symptoms were present.
-1	I had symptoms that I looked up on medmd and was able to determine what my illness was and seek medical treatment 
-1	I woke one morning feeling odd. There was no reason for this. As i started figuring this out, i came up with chemical imbalance in my head. Doctor agreed.
1	I've never had any opportunity to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues . I've been lucky but I do know more than most people because I have a physician as a brother 
-1	I know all my medications and their dosages and know what they have been prescribed for. I have a good idea of when I began taking the medication. I keep a journal of any new or mysterious symptoms that may occur and bring them to my doctor's office at the nex appointment.
-1	None. I haven't had any. I haven't been in any situation like that. No experience. I haven't had to demonstrate any knowledge.
-1	Discovering that I have digestive disorder. Several possibles were given to me as what type of disease I was not surprise because I had been reading information online and knew which one I had but again tests were made and I was right. 
-1	Putting God first in your life. Can keep u healthy. Listening to your can keep u healthy. Doing the right thing.
-1	My daughter had some abdominal issues a few weeks ago.  I knew some symptoms of constipation and appendicitis.  I used my knowledge to self diagnose and get some medicine and the pain went away.
-1	Dinner nah hash browns and I love the way you do that You is an infection that has been the same as since you are came who is a friend of and that was your wife who was is had ot
-1	I have been blessed enough in my life that I have never had to give anyone in my family CPR, see someone faint, or be in a dire medical emergency.
-1	I do not know how to determine medical reading, but I know how I feel. Some of my feeling are really bad when I go to the doctor and see what is going one.
-1	When I had an MRI done years ago to see if there was a tumor on my brain because of numerous headaches but was told brain is fine spine on the other hand well I was diagnosed at that time with cervical spondyliosis which means my spine is fused doctors want to operate hell no Ill die with a fused spine and what other abnormalities that I have
-1	I have had a situation in which I had to take a for of medicine, in which one of the side effects was itchy skin. It was very painful and I didn't know that it was a from the medicine at the time
-1	Understanding the changes my brother had to make after circulatory and heart issues. Surgery of having a pacemaker and then having to replace for a new one.
-1	I felt a lump in my breast sometime back when I was doing my regular breast check in the bathroom and I called my oncologist to have it checked to see if there was anything I needed to worry about 
-1	I was in the Army for 6 years I'm a certified combat lifesaver and I got out I became cpr-certified and first aid certified
-1	no health issues my doctor told me I'm healthy as a horse my health is very good I eat less calories and healthy things 
-1	I have a physical once a year. At times my health issues not the best, but my doctor gives me information about what I need to do in order to maintain my health organization even get healthier.
-1	Used to work in medicine and help people because it's good to help people  it's great to help I help all the time
-1	A friend when to the ER for a certain thing, the doctors told her it was something serious but what they told her it was needed to be tested to find that out so I told her she needed to go somewhere else cause that needed to be tested
1	Giving Birth To My Daughter And Having To Have A Ceserean Section Because My Cervix Would Nk longer Dilate After 5 CM and With Every Contraction My Child's Heart Fate Would Drop Due To Stress
-1	I was a peer advocate in college so I learned about sexually transmitted diseases at the time which is how I know more 
1	I don't know if there is a specific instance that I could give,but my daughter has had quite a few medical procedures in her life.  I am able to explain, in detail, everything that any new doctor needs to know about her situation.
-1	I have not had an experience in my life yet that required me to use any medical knowledge at this point in my life.
-1	Having asthma and COPD is no fun, I used to go to the hospital every few days sure to not being able to breathe!  I learned first hand that not being able to breathe is no joke! 
-1	When I found out I was allergic to something. I consumed it and started to break out. Broke out in hives
-1	When I was told about the process of a c-section while giving birth and how to stay calm and what the further steps I needed to do at that very moment in time
1	I had been experiencing abnormal fatigue for a long time and got a blood test that showed I had severe iron deficiency. I was directed to start taking iron supplements daily. A family member who knew about the situation told me that I should start feeling better within a couple of days. I explained that the pills didn't work to give me instant energy, but that my body required time (weeks or months) to restore my depleted iron stores, ramp up red blood cell production, and get physiologically readjusted before I could expect to feel better.
-1	I thank God I never had any medical or health issues.  I hear people every day going thru something, as I have been Blessed.
-1	On some it was a guess im not really good at something and others i am. But its good to know somethings about health and mental stuff can help you in the long run.
-1	With God's help, I cured my son of diabetes and I also helped my husband greatly reduce his diabetes medication 
-1	I had an abnormal mammogram. I had to get another mammogram and an ultrasound. The technician had to explain the necessity of the additional tests and the results. 
-1	I had an issue with a anti depressant regimen a few years ago; I pleaded with the physician to changed my medication, because I knew the regimen I was taking was not working anymore.  After persistence on my part, it turned out that medicine was on a list of questionable treatments and multiple lawsuits, which described my exact issue with medication surfaced.  To further prove I had been right, my insurer even removed the medication from their formulary and was placed on another regimen, which drastically improved my situation.
-1	I had a bacterial infection and it was very annoying it had a bad smell the doctor keep giving me the  wrong medicine  so I did my own research and went back to the doctor and told them what I had and I  finally got the right medicine
-1	I have a average of normal when It comes to experience in my life to the knowledge of health medical and or medical issues. If possible, I will search on the net to see what issues  that I might have.
-1	I've had many different experiences with my knowledge of health and medical issues. These have helped me along the way.
1	Someone in my class passed out and I was CPR trained. They were not breathing so I did chest compressions while they were lying on a hard service. Then I used an AED machine and that fixed the problem.
1	When I was diagnosed with high blood pressure by my doctor.   I had to change my diet and also take medication
-1	Every time I visit a health care professional it tests my knowledge because I am very knowledgeable because I read a Lot and pay attention to everything around me in that field it's a passion of mine.
-1	I've no ideal of what you people talking about. But I'm just gonna say anything to get my money. And that's all I've to tell you people 
-1	Recently my mother got cancer so I looked up a bunch of cancer material to help my parents deal with this illness
1	I was able to help someone identify the symptoms of someone who was possibly diabetic before they were diagnosed. 
-1	My issues are sometimes reading the putting the medicine on the wrong alse sometimes, but I get along really good with the patient.
1	My father is a diabetic and I was able to help him when his blood sugar reading was too low. I worked in an ophthalmologist office and a lot of our patients were diabetic so it was important to know how to treat them in case of an emergency. 
-1	Health medical issue can effect your life style. IF you have cancer, psa, heart attack, stroke can cause death. To understand your health you need to ask the doctor how can you fight the disease to eat health food and execise in your life style.
-1	I have several experiences because I had over 180 clinical hours in nursing school, but somethings I have forgotten, but just from me following my doctors orders now. Knowing how important it is to take my medicine everyday and trying noto to miss a pill while following a healthy lifestyle
-1	i had a breast mamagram and found out that i have small masses so the doctor did surgery one one breast but now do the other removal
-1	I know how to clean and apply a bandage to a small scrape or cut. And the rest I leave it to the professionals who are train in medical matters.
-1	Only time that I can think of was when I was in college and I was taking an anatomy course and I had to take it and Ina me test and I did really well got an A on it so that's the only thing I can think of that would have demonstrated my knowledge to help their medical conditions
-1	I really don't know a lot about health or medical issues, but i do understand my health issue and what i need to do to stay healthly.
1	I have had a history of anxiety and depression for almost 5 years now. When I was starting with current counselor for treatment, I had mentioned that I was, at the time, a Psychology major. Being in the field of psychology and having had to take classes centering around what I was feeling really helped to put certain things into perspective. For example, when my counselor asked if I knew about a certain type of treatment that she wanted me to try, more often than not I would say yes because I had to study it at school. Knowing about things like that helped me to understand what she would discuss with me and helped her to put things into a frame of perspective for me.
-1	Working with children with mental illness and having a background in social work have helped me know what questions to ask and what to do in terms of intervention
1	The last time I had a hip replacement, I knew something was not right, in spite of others (physical therapists, nurses) insisting that everything was okay.  I was discharged with the issue still persisting. Less than 24 hours later I had to return to have a small procedure to fix the issue. The doctor agreed that I was not alright.
-1	When I was diagnosed as being insulin resistance. I didn't know too much about it. Only that I had to watch my sugar intake and take prescription meds. After careful studies and through trial and error, I was able to control my blood sugar levels through diet and exercise (along with taking a cinnamon supplement one to two times a day).
-1	I understand my conditions and the solution to manage these conditions. My primary care provider will alert me to any changes. 
-1	"This whole survey hurt my brain I can't take anymore. Algebra ahh Here's some random crap off the internet Medicine (British English Listeni/mdsn/; American English Listeni/mdsn/) is the science and practice of the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease.[1][2] The word ""medicine"" is derived from Latin medicus, meaning ""a physician"".[3][4] Medicine encompasses a variety of health care practices evolved to maintain and restore health by the prevention and treatment of illness. Contemporary medicine applies biomedical sciences, biomedical research, genetics, and medical technology to diagnose, treat, and prevent injury and disease, typically through pharmaceuticals or surgery, but also through therapies as diverse as psychotherapy, external splints and traction, medical devices, biologics, and ionizing radiation, amongst others.[5] Medicine has existed for thousands of years, during most of which it was an art (an area of skill and knowledge) frequently having connections to the religious and philosophical beliefs of local culture. For example, a medicine man would apply herbs and say prayers for healing, or an ancient philosopher and physician would apply bloodletting according to the theories of humorism. In recent centuries, since the advent of modern science, most medicine has become a combination of art and science (both basic and applied, under the umbrella of medical science). While stitching technique for sutures is an art learned through practice, the knowledge of what happens at the cellular and molecular level in the tissues being stitched arises through science. Prescientific forms of medicine are now known as traditional medicine and folk medicine. They remain commonly used with or instead of scientific medicine and are thus called alternative medicine. For example, evidence on the effectiveness of acupuncture is ""variable and inconsistent"" for any condition,[6] but is generally safe when done by an appropriately trained practitioner.[7] In contrast, treatments outside the bounds of safety and efficacy are termed quackery."
1	When  asked about my HS, I was able to explain the what it was, risks and prognosis. Family and friends also ask me about certain diseases or conditions since I am knowledgable about them.
-1	None.  I can't think of any.  I'm not really a health junkie.   I just live each day to the fullest, hoping there is nothing wrong with my body.
-1	I work in a hospital with doctors and I have attended plenty of doctor appointments with my parents as well
1	I often accompany my dad to the doctor when he goes.  I will often look over his test results as often he doesn't understand what they mean
-1	When a person from one of my classes had an epileptic episode I knew the first thing to do was to get him on his side and let the eipisodd past
-1	When I had to get my fibriods removed. I wa able to explain to other women why it was necessary for me to also have a partial  hysterectomy 
-1	I am a Certified Medical assistant so I demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues on a daily basis. 
-1	I have had heart disease for 19 years. I had indegestion really bad one time and someone called an ambulance. I explained to the entire that I knew all my signs and symptoms of cardiac failure and I was sure that I wasn't experiencing an of them
-1	i went to school for medical assistant so i know a little something about things so i can relate to some of the terms that the doctors use 
-1	An experience that I can recall is when I was telling a friend about her medical issues. It was sort of the same medical issues I had. This was a time I felt as if I had lots of medical knowledge.
-1	Regular annual exams taken in 1999 I had to have LEEP surgery due to precancerous cells. I went through procedure and all cells were removed
-1	My 19 year old daughter began to experience fluid leakage from her left breast. I asked her how many times it had happened and when.  I had her check for an odor and coloration. I asked her about changes to her breast in size, texture and sensitivity. Finally, I asked if she were pregnant.  I told her it was likely due to hormonal changes and could be related to the meds she was taking. I took her to the doctor.  Her asked all of the same questions I had asked.  Performed a breast exam, then researched her medicine history.  He then told us that one of the meds she was taking was known to cause this type of hormonal changes. 
-1	my grandfather had a accident in my house. he run to my room but his feet had a wound. i help him and i take him to the hospital
-1	I don't know if I ever had one in that case I would say I don't know and I 'am not at all knowledge of health or medical.
-1	None that i can think of my health i kinda pretty good that ther is no major problems that i am aware of rite this minute
-1	i have done nurse assistance jobs and also went to six weeks of nursing classes to prepare myself for nursing homes and doctors offices. Trained in cpr also. physically i am ready.
1	I know the visible signs for strokes. FAST is the acronym that can help determine if someone is having a stroke. I was able to use this knowledge to recognize the signs and was able to get help right away for my mother.
-1	I went to the doctors one time because my throat was very sore. I checked at home and knew that I had strep throat.  There were white spots in the back of my throat and it was very hard and hard for me to swallow. 
-1	I understand if you are overweight, you have a higher risks for obtaining health issues.  Also, family history plays an important in determining higher risks of disease.
1	I'm fairly good at noticing changes in my body and what it could mean medically. I also read some medical articles where I learn and consume symptoms that could indicate an issue.
-1	Reading on web md and listening to docters and nurses and watching Dr. Oz is a positive thing and taking surveys on health online and just learning from others conversations and social media and news
1	Had to care for my sick wife and buy and keep track of her medications.  Had to also spend more than two months in the hospital at her side day and night.
1	Being human, having my share of emergency room visits, and a few minor medical issues earlier in life. Later on going through pregnancy and delivering a child
-1	I have never had an experience that I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues. I'm sure in the future there might be some instances
-1	I noticed that I was having frequent headaches and feeling very jittery so I went to the doctor to get my blood pressure checked, they found I had high blood pressure. From then on I have been taking the medicine and watching my sodium intake.
-1	I can't think of one that can be described in a few sentences or words. Medical health and issues are simple yet sometimes complicated.
-1	After having psoriasis for over an decade, I knew what type of treatments, and prescriptions were available and helped me.
1	when my wife was diagnosed with microcalcification in her left breast, i took it upon my self to become fully knowledgeable in the condition, treatments and long term prognosis.
-1	There was a time in my life where I had a sharp pain in my lower back that didn't feel like normal pain. I knew with the symptoms of cramping in my lower abdomen and problems with urination that I could possibly have kidney stones. I requested that my doctor do a urine test.
-1	I try to look for new medications when I have an occurring issue like something I never tried before that I feel will work then I will look into if they take my insurance and what side effects might happen
1	When i had to take care of my mom who was sick and had seizures. I knew what to do when she were having a seizure and who to call about it.
-1	I have thyroid issues hyperthyroidism that treated with radiation has bought me too hypothyroidism which I control with levothyroxine daily for past 20 plus years
-1	I was in the doctors office with my condition and I was able to understand what the doctor was talking about and was able to communicate with him regarding the meds I have taken in the past as well as things I was doing to easy my situation prior to coming in.
-1	In the past my anxiety meds were nolonger effective. The physician I was seeing wanted to up my dose for the third time. However I had to explain to him I was becoming immune to the drug and needed to start on another one. 
1	I have no idea how to answer this question.  I was sick and able to read the instructions on a medicine bottle and not od.  I lowered my average blood pressure by changing my diet.
-1	I try to be knowledgeable about what is going on with my body and being able to understand what the doctor is telling me.
-1	Tore ligament in my shoulder and needed decompression of my rotor cups and to fix shoulder inpingmen of my right shoulder surgery. After surgery need to go to therapy to help with being able too, use shoulder.
-1	I have little to no experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues but this survey is making me feel dumb for not understanding this medial and health knowledge. 
1	No experiences really stick out. I've taken first aid and CPR training so those have given me some knowledge about various health and medical issues. 
-1	an experience in my life that demonstratedknowledge of health or medical issuea is when i had acid reflux and i couldn't breath it was the worst thing i ever had
-1	When I was in school and we were discussing a diseases. Many had no knowledge about it. but was just saying anything. Me, I knew a lot about it so I began to inform them. That's when I realized knew a lot more about health and medical issues than my peers.
-1	Being diagnosed with hypertension. Made a change in my overall healthcare. Trying  to quit smoking cigarettes, eating healthier , less salt, exercising, 
1	My daughter was given an EKG for an arrhythmia. She was afraid the pads would shock her. I was able to calm her because I know the machine is there to measure the flow of electricity coming from her body, not to introduce extra electricity. 
1	When I had to take care of my mom as she got sick. She had a strong form of cancer and I had to learn the treatments for it and how to handle her declining health.
-1	I been to the doctor plenty of times and know a lot about health. I ask doctors a lot of questions and they tell them what I need.
-1	I really can't recall an experience being that i haven't really had any medical issues that resulted me into seeing a doctor
-1	I don't really have experience other than researching stuff on my on on the Internet. That is the extent of my medical knowledge.
-1	I once had to take a medical terminology test for a job. I received an 80%. I knew and understood more medical terms than I realized.
-1	I have cluster headackes that is feel very capable about making choice for my medical are very good about all choice of my doctors are all 
-1	As an emt i learned much about health. Basic thing's i dealt with was sprang and breaks. Outsole come to me often to ask about something going on if i know what's going on i will try to help them. If not i will tell them to go to the doctor. 
-1	Health knowledge is to learn more about my medical issues from my doctor and ask the questions i need to ask
1	I am knowledgeable of reading labels after I became sick with cancer in 2013. I decided to learn the labels for myself to reduce sugar and other unhealthy food items.
-1	I have migraines and cluster headaches so bad I have to go to an emergency room & make several same day doctor visits 
-1	Researching any symptoms, helped with having knowledge before hand, and helped with knowing what to discuss with physician regarding healthcare monitoring and concerns
-1	I ws experiencing pain and the drs couldn't find the cause I did research and spoke openly with my dr about all the issues I was having
-1	I once had a asthma attack that i had to be put on a breathing machine.So i changed the way i exercise and diet to make me Healthy.
1	my friend was having complications with her pregnancy so I helped her and calmed her down and it all turned out ok
-1	My mother frequently had mammograms performed and during that time I researched breast cancer on my own.
1	Told that my sister had food poisoning, probably ate some mayonnaise. Everyone else had eaten the same food. She had nause, vomiting bile and severe abdominal pain, coming under not keep any thing down...RL quadrant pain. I told the dr. She had gallstones and had her transferred to another hospital where it was correctly Diagnosed and she had surgery.
-1	When i experienced respiratory stress during a heatwave in Chicago that killed many people.  I was one of the lucky ones because I realized what I needed to do to breathe and maintain composure.
-1	I'm an athletic trainer that deals with orthopedic injuries all time. But there are times when I see athletes with fevers, skin rashes, stomach bugs, etc. from there I have to figure out the best possible treatment for them or to refer them to.
-1	Some years ago I attended a university to study medical assisting.  I finish all courses of study, but never passed my state exam.
1	I was asked why humans cannot naturally survive on a plant diet without pills. I told the person that meat is much more nutritous than plants ever will be and has much more calories. I also told them that vitamins and minerals are much easier absorbed from other animals and that some vitamins are only found in animal meat.
-1	had to read up on a cold that i had and the medicince that the doctor had to give me and i found out that the medicince was the best for the cold so i went to another doctor and he gave me better pills
-1	An experience in my life taht demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was whem my sister came down with the flu but we had no medicines at home and it was extremely late, so no pharmicies or stores were open. So what I did was evaluated and assessed her symproms. I noticed she had stuffy noise, chest coughing and a mild fever . So first I made her some honey tea with lemon to alleviate the stuffy nose and couh then I allowed her to lay down so i could rub a semi cold damp rag on her forehead to get rid of the fever. I also turn the fan down low so it doesn't irritate her symptonms some more
1	My knowledge of knee issues have given plenty of people enough information to make a decision regarding getting arthroscopic surgery.
-1	I used to work as a nurses aid for a children's hospital and grew accustomed to the feel of one forehead to tell if they had a fever
-1	I was able to determine that a medication prescribed for me was making me tired and feel very fatigued. The felt like the dosage was to high. So, I split the pill in half and started taking it like that. I continued to receive the benefits that the medication was prescribed for without the negative side effects
-1	When I found out I was a diabetic. I found out I have high cholesterol. I found out I have high blood pressure. 
-1	when i had pnuemonia i learned they gave me prescription for tamiflu. I said if i have pnuemonia why am i being given this. They said when the flu gets really bad it turns into pneumonia. I just learned that
1	I cannot say that I am well versed on health issues. I have children and I often rely on the internet and thorough research when it comes to health issues before seeking a doctor. It has always been a great help to me.
-1	Good experience with your new scenes and the characters and you are very good to be your character or character and the characters and you are great to be honest with the character you can see on your own characters or character character of character character or characters character or the characters character or characters or the characters or characters characters character and the story of the game and the story characters 
-1	I have not had many medical problems in my life fortunately. I have been diagnosed with having uterine fibroids that I was informed would cause me to potentially not be able to carry a child without the possibility of having a miscarriage. 
-1	I figured out that the extreme pain and difficulty with mobility that I was having was due to disc problems that I was having with my back. This was before I consulted with my doctor.
-1	When I had sinus surgery. I knew a lot of the words the doctor used because of the things I learned when I went to Chiropractic School.
-1	I had two surgeries last year and had to research my condition so I'd be able to understand it better. 
-1	I've never had an experience to learn a lot on health so anytime the opportunity came I was silent. I'm very quiet and keep things to myself.
-1	I've never had an experience where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. This isn't my field of work so I try not to give false information though I know a bit. Every person ia different so who am I as an untrained doctor to give advice 
-1	I displayed symptoms of unbalanced anbulation and neuropathy in my feet not relieved by pain medicine and all test results were normal. I figured the cause to be 1 of 2 diagnosis and was correct after all evaluations were completed
-1	I have not really had any of these types of experiences. I rely on the internet and my doctor for information
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.. I don't know...
-1	I thought this wasn't a good barametor on that. I thought it was very unnecessary and not really relevant to the survey's topic. 
-1	I can't think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I actually have no knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	As stated in the letter of intent, the NHMFL offers the capability to measure actinide materials under unique conditions. Conventional transport measurements can be performed with lock-in amplifiers or resistance bridges using the extreme environments available at the NHMFL. In addition, very sensitive skin depth measurements can also be used where a sample is placed in the inductor coil of a resonant tunnel diode oscillator circuit. Frequency changes to the circuit allow one to learn about the penetration depth of superconductors, susceptibility of magnetic materials or perform quantum oscillation studies on metals. This technique has the advantage of being contactless to avoid damaging fragile samples m. 
-1	My grandmother suffered and succumbed to renal failure, which was highblood related.  Highbllod pressure is a def. Silent killer. They need better treatments for kidney patients. Solutions need to begin at an early age for each person born.
1	I have hypothyroidism, so there's been a learning curve.  There's a lot I didn't think of before, so I've had to play catch up.  Since then, I've had to learn to be specific with questions and require a response.  I know where my individual numbers should be and not just the healthy range
-1	When I was prescribed anti-anxiety medication and I realized that it was having an adverse affect that was giving me negative side effects and I was able to realize this and be able to switch and get the correct medication.
-1	At one point in time I had a yeast infection, and decided to treat it myself by giving myself regular rinses with a mixture of raw unfiltered organic apple cider vinegar with the 'mother' and distilled water, I would also soak a tampon in that same mixture and insert it.  Twice a day i would drink water with 2 tablespoons of the same vinegar---all natural cure/treatment!
-1	well that time i had oval cancer and wasn't sure if i was gonna live or die well I went to the doctor did everything they told me they remove the cancer cells and everything came back ok
-1	Efficient sleep is important to me to be able to feel healthy. I strive to get 8-hours of rest normally. Also important to me is a well-balanced diet. I often engage in the intake of required vitamins, minerals, and other vital nutrients overall. 
-1	When I was diagnosed with avascular necrosis which is secondary to lupus; I understood that the condition was caused by long term use of prednisone, a corticosteroid. Eventually I would need hip replacement to ease the pain caused by this condition. Continued use would cause for damage in other joints which it has. Unfortunately, this treatment is necessary to help keep the lupus stable.
-1	Last year I'd finally gotten insured and started visiting doctors for four different preventive screening exams. I'd get health information after each exam and take them home with me for my own references.
-1	None. Never had health problems. I always took care of my health. I only caught colds and maybe a few allergies but nothing major or serious or life threatening.
-1	my doctor diagnose me with high blood pressure and depression i have to take my medicine twice a day and one at night
-1	I went to the doctor before had blood in my urine they said it was nothing to worry about until I got something checked out and it was nothing to worry about it was yet the exercise I was doing with for strenuous on my body
-1	Last year I diagnosed myself with a corneal ulcer based on what I was seeing and symptoms of it. When I went into the eye doctor it turns out I was correct in my diagnosis.
-1	I haven't really allowed anything to go on that long before I do something to prevent certain things such as high blood pressure and diabetes.
-1	When I as told I was pregnant I already knew I was pregnant because I took a test to confirm before I went to the doctors office 
-1	When I took my voted class for medical field . I learned things in the health department . It taught me what to expect and what not to expect & to be aware . 
-1	When I was diagnosed with breast cancer.  I was able to comprehend the healthcare process that I needed to undergo to free me from the cancer diagnosis.
-1	i was having which i thought was the flu; but when i started wheezing and bronicit coughing, i knew it was probably much more.like acute brochitis or something of that nature.
-1	I have never had this type of experience. I am not well versed in health issues. I just know what you shouldn't do.
-1	I had my pressure checked after a minor fender bender, and it was elevated. I knew it was a result of the accident, because my pressure is usually normal.
-1	There is no experience because I am not a doctor I understand when the doctor explain to me that is all
1	I had a sore throat for more than a week. I took the regular over the counter drugs and they did not work so I went to the doctor suspecting it was strep. After the test was done, I was right. I had strep and received a prescription.
-1	I had to take a health and wellness course i  order to qualify for a job. I could also test out of the course if I received a B or higher. I chose to test out and received an A.
-1	I used to get asthma attacks a lot because I didn't know how to control it, but as the years went on, I learned how to control it and now I don't get attacks as often.
-1	My dad passed out with low sugar. I called 911 and sat him up and have him orange juice. .... I did cpr on a baby puppy that wasn't breathing and brought him back to life
-1	my quarterly wellness visit relative to my knowledge and awareness of reducing and controlling my 1AC LEVEL.
-1	I went to the doctor and my blood pressure was high. I knew all about hypertension and I know that because I was rushing in that could have been a factor. I also know how to take one so I was knowledgeable in that also. 
-1	There are things what you think what you need things things can get better then last rgiibgs I want to think about happy things
-1	I had a brain aneurysm and an AVM in my front left lomb the blood vessels were mangled from birth.  This malformation is what saved my life when I had the aneurysm because the blood couldn't gust out 
-1	I never have any healtg or medical issues that would be serious. So i dont know how to explain more on this topic
-1	I don't know, this question I can't answer because I really do t know. I don't know what to say. Air have no answer!
-1	Well, I was out of town visiting a friend and by me living in the mountains, the shift in the altitude affected me pretty bad; I was in bed one night, and when I went to get up, I rocked right over from dizziness. I just knew it was my sinuses because of the switch in altitude, but my friend was worried and took me to the ER. They did a test on my heart and told me that was normal. I told the ER doctor that I was almost certain that it was my sinuses; the ER prescribed something for me, which I took, but it didn't help. I remained light headed a few more days before I went home, but I did buy some pills for sinuses they morning I was headed back home; sure enough, I headaches and dizziness subsided; by the time I got home, I was complete headache and dizzy free.
1	I am currently a student at the University of Michigan studying Biomedical Engineering. I am able to help my friends with small health issues that can usually be solved while at home. So I can inform a friend if he/she needs to hydrate more if something is found wrong or take other measures to make sure they are healthy.  
-1	It started when I took a trip to my doctor for a regular schedule check up he told me that they had found something abnormal an wanted to keep a eye on it. So he kept me over for observation 
-1	I cannot really recall an event in that manner that has happened to me. I have never been in that situation so I have no event like that. 
-1	When I took this quiz you just gave. Not sure about a couple answers, but positive about others. Also when friends have questions, Ican sometimes help because I've been through so much.
1	My mom underwent back surgery because of her slipped disc. For awhile, the disc sat on her nerves and would lead to numbness in her left leg.
-1	i use the internet to find stuff out about medical issues i hear about and i find out about alot of stuff
-1	I love my life and my family my kids and grandkids..we love to cook together and eat together our health is pretty good my oldest daughter has asthma but its under control
-1	Having pain in my shoulder, i advised the doctor i thought it was arthritis, and after test it was discovered that it was arthritis.
1	One time a child I was looking after fell into a pool. I had to perform cpr and save his life. It was very scary, but luckily I knew CPR
1	For a number of years, I was my mother's primary caregiver. I accompanied her to her numerous doctor appointments and managed her medications. When she had emergent episodes, I was always there as an advocate speaking on her behalf to doctors.
-1	i really have no experience in the medical field.  but i do have knowledge from my fiance. She educates me on alot of things
-1	When I had a test done and it came back postive.  But I didn't feel it was right so they did the test again.  And it came back negative.
1	I was talking to my friends about pregnancy and complications. I knew the names of certain pregnancy related terms because I read my mom's midwifery books.
-1	i can read and put together the answers and be able to make sure what i am putting together fit well
-1	I have not had an experience in which I had to demonstrate that I had knowledge of any health or medical issues. 
1	I demonstrate knowledge each time I see a doctor by providing the doctor with all the information I can about my condition, asking questions, and doing my own research
-1	I started college when I was 21 and I went for medical assisting. I have always wanted to be a nurse. I decided to try medical assisting to see if I could handle it and to see if I wanted to try nursing. Nursing was not for me and I found that out at an early age. I really liked being a medical assisting and I learned a lot about how the body works and what part each organ play. I know medical  issues and what causes them and the treatment. I love being in the medical field.
-1	A client recently informed me that her daughter didn't seem herself. The daughter recently began receiving chemotherapy and was nothing eating. Loss of appetite seemed like a typical side effect. The next day she said the daughter's mouth seemed swollen. I immediately assumed she was having a reaction & advised her to get to the ER. Turns out the daughter had an infection & was sceptic. 
-1	I dont even understand the questions so I am not exactly sure what you want from this answer and not sure how to answer the questions
1	Once I was having intercourse with my partner when there was some abnormal bleeding coming from my vagina. I was not due for menstruation so I knew that there must have been something going on. I called the doctor the next day to make an appointment to see if there was any tearing or any other abnormalities. 
-1	There is no experience in my life that demostrated knowledge of health or medical issues at all or now
-1	not tsure at this time....cannot think of an instance i have no idea as of now unsure at the moment always know your #'s
-1	My best friend and roommate has heart problems and so she has to have a lot of appointments and I go with her. She receives several informations papers to take home furthermore explaining her condition and how she can livve a healthy lifestyle. I help her understand the information
1	This survey demonstrartes a semi knowledge of medical terminology and understand of certain health risks and factors. 
-1	I'm not sure I have such an experience. I have had knee replacements.  I decided to have both of them done at the same time after the doctor told me I was a good candidate for doing that.  I have often thought since I'm so glad I did.  I'm not too sure I would have ever had the second one done if I did not.
-1	I really can't say. I do not believe math questions should be on a survey. What is this a test? I thought I was supposed to just give my opinion. 
-1	I had gestational diabetes and i had to learn to control and check my blood sugar. I had to take a class for healthy eating And eat a managed diet
1	There was a child at my job that had a nuts food allergy and I stopped them from eating candy with almonds in it because they didn't know almonds are nuts.
-1	I had a urinary tract infection. I read up on what I could do before seeing my doctor. I drank a lot of water and cranberry juice (several liters) and the infection almost cleared by the time I saw my doctor, as per test result. 
-1	I have many health problems but I am always learning based on what I can find out. I often do not understand things because everyone suffers from different complications. It can be difficultto undderstand that thing are complex.
-1	I haven't heard or read much concerning my own health issues. I feel fine the way I should be. But I think every now and then would be not much to do. ............................
-1	I can't really think of such a time. I know some about health and medical issues but am not extremely knowledgeable when it comes to these things.
1	My mom was recently admitted to the hospital due to issues with her oxygen levels.  I knew that she had to use her CPAP regularly to get her oxygen under control.
-1	i cant think of any particular incident where my knowledge of medical issues really stood out and i remember it
-1	A friend was told they needed to wear a heart monitor for a few days. I told them it wanted to just monitor their heart activity while they went about their normal activities every day for a few days.
1	Recently i had extreme pain in my hip every time i stood up, but there was no grinding in my hip, and i had no build up to the symptoms. I figured it was probably something in my lower back, since i have gained weight and that has affected my posture, and i turned out to be right
1	Some one once told me they had sinus and they are taking medication for it. I corrected the person and said everyone have sinuses but if it gets inflamed or infected then you will have a sinusitis and then you'll have to take mediction to help clear it up
1	I went in for a physical and noted that the range of motion of my left hip was a bit restricted.  The doctor ordered an x-ray and determined that I had bone on bone contact in my hip and recommended that I have it replaced.  Having gone through my mother's two hip replacements, I knew that a replacement would be of benefit and agreed to proceed.  I had also done some research on newer procedures for hip replacement and knew what to expect.
1	I have to tell people about my lupus and my pulmonary hypertension all the time.  They both can be hard for people to understand.
-1	at times due to magnesium levels being low and ending up going to the er a few times and receiving iv's of magnesium to stabilize me, my kidney docotr figured out i have a mag. deficinecy/wasting disease
1	I don't have much experience with health/medical knowledge because it scares me to read about such things.
-1	With my reading/research, I am aware of all of the false health information that is spewed to the American public:  'Get a mammogram,' 'cholesterol is dangerous,' 'use fluoride,' . . .
-1	Actually when I was about 12 years old a friend and I went bike riding and she lost control of her bike and hit a pole and split her head my first reaction was to have her removed one of her socks and put it on her head too kind of control the bleeding.
1	I suffered a heart attack one year ago and spent 4 days in the hospital. I research on the internet often and listen to my doctor and ask questions.
-1	Right now I suffer with back , hip & leg pain. My foot goes numb after standing or walking a distance. I knew it was my back but it took five years , multiple ex rays an MRI  & CAT SCAN various pills that didn't help to finally be diagnosed with a slipped disc and pinched nerve which I said from the start. Ifeeel they figured my pain wasn't real because in a black woman
-1	Haven't really had a time where I displayed any health information tactics considering the fact that I don't really fall into that professions category. But I guess with numbers and hours adding up i can calculate mg 
-1	A time in my life that showed that I had knowledge of health and medical issues wer having to perform cpr on an individual.
1	I recently had to have surgery for a blockage. I spoke with the surgeon to learn the risks and the benefits, and made ,y final decisson.
-1	 A  experience in  my life    that demonstrated  my  knowledge  of health  or medical issues  is the doctor   prescribing   me medicine   to take for  my high  blood pressure  and  other  issues .
-1	When I was sick I knew enough to go get medicine so that I would feel better . I know that when I need to see a doctor when I don't get well after a few days 
-1	being able to call the Dr about a possbile infection my Mom had in a surgrey site and found out I was right
-1	I went to donate plasma. Got told that I had arrhythmia. Didn't know much , so I googled it . Got my answers.
-1	A life experience pertaining to my knowledge of my health issues was the fact that I had cold brought on by me because i smoked two packages of cigarettes per day for 50 years
-1	If there was a reverse action that could have been taken when my doctor cut the umbilical chord from my child, I would have wanted to know. Once I got the invite, I watched and heard, and listened to the heart monitor to know I could not had cut it.  
1	Had to research side effects from medications over the weekend while my doctor was out of town. Found out there were contraindications the doctor neglected to tell me about.
-1	because I am to read and understand certain medical things so I can probably distinguish what it says 
1	When I look up things online I get a lot of know it all. I like to look things up online a lot to know thing about health.
-1	Looking at mental health, I was informed on how my son was feel when he was having depression. I was able to mentioned to the doctor on my similar experiences and medication, and what had worked for me to manage it for the most part.
1	I know there is something but recall of that experience eludes me at this time.  Life is filled with so many situations that I just take in stride either by solving the situation myself or finding the right support person to do it.
-1	I do not know nothing about health and I do not worry about it because we will not live foreverThat is all I can say right now
1	went to uc Berkeley for sports medicine and worked as an athletic trainer for 5 years.  have a pretty good base knowledge of anatomy and physiology
1	I studied human physiology in college for 4 years.  I worked as a CNA during my senior year of high school and freshman year of college.  I helped the youth hockey team athletic trainer wrap injuries and rehabilitate athletes. 
-1	yes theres a very good expeirence that i got to know as when my relative was admitted in hospital and they chargedhuge money .
1	Passing my high school red cross training class with top grades and getting my first aid and CPR certification.
-1	I know a lot about health from school and family and the internet I know a lot about it and how to apply the information 
1	When I was diagnosed with a very overactive thyroid (eventually diagnosed as Graves Disease) and thoroughly researched the condition and treatment options 
-1	I try to understand and research all documents to the best of my ability and will always ask questions when something does not seem right. 
1	I was really flushed, and breating hard, went to the hospital and found out my blood presure was 210/155
1	I can't think of a particular example, but people (co-workers, friends, etc.) often come to me for advice. 
1	I thoroughly wrote down a list of symptoms and lifestyle changes prior to my appointment in order to present them to my doctor.
-1	Inboxd the same time. I will pray for you. . I know a few years ago, and I have a fever, and the lad the bible, but it was the last few days ago by a friend who is 
1	I haven't gone to the doctor for many serious illnesses but I was coughing really bad for a few days and I knew it was something other than a cold so I went in and ended up having bronchitis
1	I once served on a jury in a malpractice suit where we had to learn a great deal about heart conditions and treatments. I have also taken CPR classes.
-1	I have had depression issues for a while. Been in and out of doctors offices trying to get the correct medicines more times than I can count on three people hands...
-1	The time when my grandmother got really sick and she needed someone to go over her information about the illness.
-1	Quite a few years ago, a very close friend of mine had came in from work. He went straight to the bedroom and laid across the bed, when I went back to check on him it was as if someone had thrown water on him I knew to call 911.
1	when I had white bumps on my mouth and looked on webmd and put in all of my symptoms and followed what to do to get rid of them
1	I generally don't have a good handle when it comes to health issues.  I use the internet quite a bit to try and understand a condition.  I also look to the internet for treatments and advice when i am not sure of something.   I also learn a bit from reading and listening to my doctor or others who have more knowledge than me.  Other than that I am pretty much in the dark.  
-1	I am a long term severe chronic insomniac diagnosed as having Primary Insomnia I. I have so much knowledge of insomnia that I have written about it. I can educate others. People turn to me for advice about insomnia.
1	I generally treat myself via nutritionally supplements, diet, and exercise.  Recently I noticed that I was losing my balance in situations where I would not normally.  I increased my intake of B12 (via sublingual supplements), and engaged in balance-stimulating exercises.  Within a short period of time my balance improved.
-1	When my father almost died I had to think clearly to make best answer u never listen to the same doctor if in ur guts tell u they are wrong
-1	I really do not have any knowledge of something like this. I do not know.I have no experiences. I do not know.
1	Never had any serious health issues and therefore don't have all the knowledge. I do believe I have some common sense and can listen and ask questions
-1	 I fell I had to go to the hospital I had OR I F surgery they tried to give me morphine and died lauded I opted to just use ice because there's no matter what medication do you take your side effects on the side Effects for these medications are bad so why do doctors push them on people no pain no gain
-1	I had to present a presentation in a healthcare class I took in high school and I had to research and use my own knowledge of the medical field with the research material to present. 
-1	Whenever I have to assist my grandmother with her medical papers, I have to have some knowledge to answer those questions accurately. 
-1	That would be hard for me to do since I have never been in the hospital and have only been to the ER 2 times in my lifetime. I guess I could say that when I broke my foot I knew about what would happen when I got to the ER, they put on a cast which I wore for about 6 weeks.
-1	When found out that I had an autoimmune kidney disease and ended up in kidney failure and on diaylsis. I eventually ended up having a kidney transplant with my brother giving me one of his kidneys. It was really important to be aware of medical issues to take care of my health.
-1	I am always finding new facts about my health. Whether by asking or finding it during my own research 
-1	I have had a healthy life so I do not spend a lot of time learning and reading about medical issues in addition to that I really do not interest in medical isssues.
-1	10 years ago I went through treatment for a rare form of breast cancer and I learned a lot about the type of cancer I had and the processes the doctors, etc. did by going to medical webs sites and reading the materials provided to me.
1	Nothing really comes to mind here. I have had very few health issues in my life and don't spend much time in situations where other people are likely to have issues. 
-1	No one  no one is a little bit and the same to get to be there is it is a little bit and I love you know what
-1	I have taken care of family members with life threatening diseases to their death and went to all doctor appts
-1	Whenever someone I know experiences a health issue, they usually ask me if I have had it and any suggestions on the treatment. I will always share my knowledge and try to help them any way I can. If I cannot answer their questions, then I will tell them to make a doctor's appointment and discuss it with him or her.
-1	I am type one diabetic, so I know my immune system extremely well.  When I get sick, I can usually tell if it is just a cold or if it is a sinus or ear infection.
-1	Well, I have a few health issues.I prayed for God to take care of me and heal and touch me.I felt so good and I don't have to worry about my health problems to increase.God Decreased my Health problems and that's very good news.
-1	I didn't not have any experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I did watch my aunt give birth though and it changed my career of choice afterward. 
-1	Experience is the key. I have had several false mammograms. I have dealt with health stuff all my life
-1	When I needed knee replacement surgery, I read up on the procedure and went to a class to find out more about it and what will happen afterwards.
-1	having to go through five Urologist I became more interested in learning about my medical condition.
-1	I read and feel good, we all have and expiration date, that you have to accept.  I know my parents lived to 75 , that is what I expect. 
1	Learning about having spondylolisthesis and bipolar.  It's was an awakening moment for me to learn more about them and how to cope daily.
1	I was having stomach pains, so I thought I was just constipated. I took a laxative and everything was fine. It was reduced to a dull pain. I woke up in the middle of the night with a sharp pain on my right side. I decided to look it up and decided it was appendicitis.
-1	I know how to spell and say medications names so that helped me when visiting with a provider and knowing my options and what certain parts of a drug name mean and usuage 
-1	Id say... I go for medical checkups as often as I should.. for my blood tests. for my cancer.. every 6 months.. if I need to go see the dr.. for other things I go as soon as possible.. Ive had a knee replacement 1 ... 2 years ago and will have another in a few months due to arthritis from checkup from other knee replacement... So If I have any problems or health issues they are talked about and discussed whenever need be.
-1	 worked for a pharmacy for 22 years and learned a lot about drugs and interactions and what they can do for diseases
1	An experience I have had that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is when my child went to the doctor and was told he had an ear infection. I knew he was going to need antibiotics for a week to get rid of it
1	My ability to explain my vondition to paramedics who are uneducated about it. They tend to not like seeing me, because they cannot fo much gor me.
-1	I don't have much medical knowledge. I do know basic first aid and know what to do in emergency situations. 
-1	I had my right upper lobe of my lung removed. There was an 85 percent change it was cancer so of course did alot of research on what my odds were types of cancers and prognosisl. I was very lucky it was not cancer but infection that had literally caused a whole in my lung.
1	I was getting dizzy and I figured out it was due to my neq medicine. I looked up information about the medicine , and , sure enough, it was the medicine.
-1	Trying to understand the risks of surgery, being put under and the reasons for the surgery that is not life threatening. I needed plain English not medical terminology. 
-1	I was diagnosed with colon cancer in 2002 and had been very familiar with this due to my father having had colon cancer five times throughout his life before he passed away. Very familiar with tests and precautions to take.
-1	I always tell the the doctor mostly everything I try to get better but things happenall the time and the trauma is serious
-1	When I help out family members and friends with the ailments they have. They usually ask me for advice on various topics concerning about health. 
-1	My husband had pain after falling off a ladder. He was checked out by medics and they felt he was fine. The next day the pain was worse- I accepted no excuses from him, we went to the emergency room.  Two broken ribs.
1	I stepped off the porch into a little depression, my ankle rolled on that foot and I came down hard on the other rotating my ankle and heard a loud pop. No immediate pain until I tryed to stand and then when I tried to walk the foot flopped...I realized I had a broken ankle.
-1	I was feeling extremely tired and having a lot of weight gain, as my mom had thyroid problems thought that could be the reason and it was.
-1	i am a mrsa carrier  they had to amputate my second toe right foot to stop the spread od mrsa  i later got an open cut on the bottom of my right foot and knew from what the doctors had told me that this would lead to another mrsa outbreak  i later lost half my foot and than my lower leg below the knee  i understood all oof this due to my doctors due deligence in teaching me how to handle the desease
-1	I had bad chest pain.I ignored them until i could not bare to any more. I am glad i went and check on my health. I could have heart attack 
-1	I was in the hospital this past year for food poisoning. At the hospital they drew my blood and found that I had come up positive for a blood disease called streptococcus. I had already heard of streptococcus thanks to the Animal Planet show Monsters Inside Me. I think that was honestly the first time I knew exactly what the doctors at the hospital were talking about. I was so horrified I started crying. I knew that what they were telling me was going to shorten my life and change it dramatically forever. Long story short though, after 16 more blood tests they found out my blood that had came up positive for streptococcus was contaminated in the hospital because all of my other tests came up negative. It's a disease I was actually familiar with and knew previously a great deal about. I'm very thankful that It's something I do not have.
1	When my father was diagnosed with a brain tumor it was up to me to provide care for him and take him to the doctor. Because he was unable to understand what was going on, I had to ask questions and learn more about his diagnosis.
-1	I only have basic must know knowledge with medical stuff. Like what to do for a cold, how to treat flue n colds.everything I do know is a must E
1	My fiance's father was recently admitted to the hospital. He was having internal bleeding and underwent several gastro tests to figure out what happened. I was able to help my fiance understand some of the results of these tests.
-1	Not sure what your talking about to me. I have some knowledge do to my actions that i  have done in the past
-1	I am an I ON nurse and I understand what the doctor or nurse is telling me about my health. If I don't understand cometh g I just ask if look it up
-1	One time  my a1C level was very high. I was supposed to be taking metformin twice a day; however the doc made a mistake and only gave me enough for one dose a day. I assumed that because i was only taking it once a day that my 1C was so high. Turns out i was right.
-1	don't ask me to do percentages or math in a survey, it's ridiculous.  When  a dr. tells your husband not to take his father to the er if he is having a brain seizure, only if he is have a stroke, and you think it's malpractice, then you know more than a dr.
1	Many years ago I administered cpr to someone until emergency technicians arrived. The person had a heart attack and I was the only one around.
-1	I grew itchy spreads inbsome reas of my body and new it was because of my unhealthy and unbalanced diet
-1	i worked in a nursing home for awhile i also ask my doctor alot of question concerning my health and i also ask my friends questions as well
-1	i have had migraines my entire life as well as trouble with my joints and tendons, as well as my digestive system.  i have seen a variety of doctors, taken different medications and therapies, and done a lot of my own research
1	I recently suffered from anxiety/depression. I know about the drugs that are used to treat these problems. I was able to tell the doctors which drugs might work and which might not work.
1	When a family member asks me or when my wife and son get sick and need help it helps me to know tips that i read in books, blogs and websites
-1	An incident when at a family event, father passed out.  Had him laying flat on floor, took his pulse, he had one, had another person call 911 while I tended to him.  
-1	I was on the wrong blood pressure medication and kept telling the doctor I didn't feel right.  After several visits he finally looked up the side effects
1	My aunt had schizophrenia.  She also had tardive dyskinesia.  I explained that to my dad (her brother). My father had kidney cancer.  I had to go with him for each appointment to listen to the doctor for him due to him being in shock 
-1	i hate doing all that math so i guessed at a few if you cannot tell i have no time for math i hate math and never will ever in my days like to do math
-1	i knew how to control my asthma symptoms before i was told how to by my doctor.avoiding my trigger and internet research helped me without having to rely on him
-1	I have been on medication for high cholesterol for a number of years.  I am able to read the reports my doctor provides me on the blood tests that are completed each year to monitor this condition.  
1	I had neurological pain symptoms in my feet. I had to argue with my doctor for two years that it was not athlete foot and that since his treatment of me had failed for two years maybe he should refer me to a neurologist. He refused to even consider it. When I finally got to a neurologist she said I was right and the GP should have paid attention to my research. 
1	My father had several serious health issues (heart disease, cancer), and I attended doctors' appointments with him.  I developed a good understanding of cardiac health (his, at least) through this experience.  I was diagnosed with an asymptomatic auto-immune disease several years ago, one that may affect many different organs.  I have been thoroughly screened through this process, and developed and demonstrated a good understanding of health as a result.
1	I am an surgical technologist and have had 25 years of experience working in hospitals and clinic settings
-1	I have a medical library the consists of cards with everything that has to do with health that I have read and watch doctor shows. I have also been in the hospital 16 years ago with a serious condition that that made me interested in and have read on in medical.
-1	Have taken medical terminology do know how to interpret medical terms or read a medical chart.  Read my fathers medical chart.
1	I was counseled on the effects of a certain medication and knew most of the info given before the doctor related it to me (my dad had taken it previously).
-1	I went for an routine eye examination and the Doctor there saw something that wasn't sure what it was so he suggested that I see a Specialist of the corneas and he even called and set up an appointment and I went and I have Macular Degeneration in both of my eyes and it is the Dry kind.
-1	I have worked for the department of health before and I learned a lot of knowledge thank god for future reference. I now know what my grandmother is going through and how to help her with long term care and choosing different advantage plans with medicare with her extra benefits.  I also have knowledge in medical terms now that I can speak correctly to a doctor and ask the right questions
1	I knew symptoms of a certain problem a family member was having and I told them to go to the doctor to have it checked out.
-1	MY LAST OPERATION, SIMPLE KNEE REPLACEMENT SURGRY, DUE TO POOR DOCTORING I WAS IN FOR 14 DAYS WITH KNEE, STOMACH BLEEDING, PNEUOMIA AND KIDNEY FAILFURE.  TOO MANY DOCTORS GIVING ME DIFFERENT THINGS.
-1	Too many questions, I am tired, what is this? A test? A joke? I am boring of this, is the worse surver ever
-1	When I was a bone marrow donor. We had access to blood results and would keep up with the levels daily. 
-1	I can't answer this questions because it does not pertains to me, I have a personal life and I'm not comfortable about telling about my health issues to this survey I just don't and I will not give any information about my personal health issues
-1	Im not a doctor you know. So i didnt quite answer the correct ones. I have basic knowledge like every one else
-1	I BASE MOST OF MY KNOWLEDGE ON MY MEDICAL SCHOOLING AND WORK EXPERIENCE. ALSO THE INFORMATION i CAN GET FROM THE COMPUTER.
-1	I can't think of anything really. I know enough to get to a doctor for some things and enough to not run to the doctor every time I have a sniffle. I know that a lot of things can get better without an antibiotic which have been overused.
1	I really have no idea what this question is asking of me. I really don't have a lot of knowledge of health or medical issues until one of my doctors tells me about them.
-1	don't really have a big example i understand basics nothing really in too much detail i understand when you have diabetes you need to not eat sugar  and exercise to keep a1c at a good level
-1	I researched my condition before I went to see the doctors office and it turned out that I was correct in the diagonosis.
-1	I've had various infections in the past years. I did my own research and found that garlic is an effective treatment because it's a natural anti-biotic among other things. 
1	in 2003, I had a pain at the base of my spine after one drink. I thought it might have been my prostate and it was. I had cancer.
-1	I was at work and I had trouble breathing. I worked at a clinical I told my Dr. I was having trouble breathing and was sent to the hospital and I had a blood cloth in my lungs
1	None I have no experience.        Nor do I have any impeccable knowledge about the health care profession what so ever I am unaware an I knowledgeable about the inner workings                                                                 
1	in my previous occupation as a social worker i was required to have a general knowledge of health contions. i need to know when to consult with a medical professional.
-1	Talking to my doctor about various stuff. i dont really know what this question is about i guess blah blah blah
1	I have found that I can reduce the risk of heart attack or stroke by using a very effective and easily obtained, low price item, this is an aspirin
1	Melanoma and now COPD  have been a challange. I am cancer free but the COPD stills governs my life Am on oxygen 24/7.
1	One of my eyes turned very red and it would not go away. I suspected that something was wrong so I went to see my eye doctor as soon as possible.
-1	My daughter just gave birth to my grand daughter. While she was in labor she asked what certain pains were and what exactly was happening and i was able to explain it all to her.
-1	I was diagnosed with rheumatoid disease. Withbthis information, i had enough knowledge to know who i needed to contact and what actions to take.
-1	There was time when I had a false positive mammogram and I to had take many test to rule out if I had to do more
1	The only time I've had to do anything that involved knowledge of medicine was in deciding whether or not to take a drug, based on the severity of the side effects.
1	I was at a resort and a wedding was taking place on the beach. An elderly attendee wad struggling and soon passed out. I thought it was heat stroke so we got her inside, removed her jacket and shoes, and applied cold compresses. She regained consciousness before paramedics arrived. Heard later it was heat stroke and she was fine. 
-1	My daughter had an emergency appendix surgery. On her follow up visit with the surgeon, we were informed she had a tumor in the middle of her appendix. The surgeon said due to the location and size he didn't recommend any follow up procedures or tests. We still decided to check with her pediatrician for recommendations.
1	I can't think of any experience that would demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I don't claim to be vvery knowledgable about such things.  That't why there are health care providers.
1	My boyfriend often comes to me with health-realted questions. Both my parents were nurses, so I grew up in a home where we solved our own health problems. I am also interested in natural remedies and research non-pharmecudical cures often.
1	I have an auto immune condition that primarily attacks septuagenarian males. I have studied the condition in great detail using medical resourses.
-1	I knew that my son needed to have his tonsils taken out. The pediatrician checked and referred me to a specialist. He had his tonsils removed and felt much better. 
-1	When I had knee surgery how much pain I went threw I would not which it on anyone it took me four months to walk again.
1	i raised a child successfully... i think that would qualify me as somewhat knowledgeable of health or medical issues....
-1	I have a pinched nerve in neck and know when inflamation is severe and am able to ease the pain by doing isometrics. I know the immune system requires certain vitamins to be effective. I also think the medical people do not take ordinary people seriously enough
-1	Being a good listener. Read medical material. Try and stay up to date as much as possible. Talk to others on various subjects.
-1	There are no experiences in my life that has demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues so far. 
-1	There was a time when I kept getting sick over and over again for about three months straight. I finally went to the doctor and discovered that if I'd had gotten sick one more time it would've been my last. I was diagnosed with walking pneumonia 
-1	Careful about managing weight and can provide information to others regarding portion sizes, well balanced diets, and healthy cooking techniques
-1	My husband was coughing and felt ill and couldn't breath well when laying down and went to the doctor and was told he had the flu. He was given medicine and did not get better. I told him I thought he had lung cancer which was proven to be true
-1	follow the account of locution sum report of this session command and follow up on how to submerge as long as you get second standard
1	My exercise program was fun but did little about weight. When I tripled the exercise the pounds fell off.
-1	When someone has a headache I know that it could mean a lot of things. Maybe you need rest,fluids, relaxation etc.
-1	I don't have a specific experience because I am very hesitant to ask questions of medical professionals 
-1	I had a digital rectal exam and then a PSA. The PSA was slightly above a number although the DRE was normal. I had the PSA again and it was within normal range for my age/race. The increase may have been due to an increase in sexual activity prior to test.
-1	I remember a decent amount about health from high school. From CPR class we learned CPR, binding wounds, sexually transmitted diseases and other things.  
-1	I am aware of strokes and other medical conditions because of my educational background. I have been given the opportunity to understand and receive training on various health issues. However, I do not wish to disclose any experiences in my life regarding medical issues.
1	In the Army I started having severe abdominal pain which was accompanied by fever spikes as high as 103 degrees. I remembered these were the same symptoms that happen with appendicitis. I went immediately to sick call and was diagnosed with severe appendicitis.
-1	I really cannot let you know to demonstrate any knowledge of health or medical issues.  I know I have diabetes 2 and know how to control it and how to test it, but really do not know everything about its
-1	I learned that the thyroid test TSH is not an accurate test of tissue hypothyroidism therefore there can be many not diagnosed
1	When I was on a bike and hit by a car I understood what the loss of a kidney, spleen, and adrenal gland amounted to from a health and medical standpoint.
-1	I don't know because I don't like to think about health issues. They scare me and it is hard to know if a person is healthy or not just by looking at them. Sometimes I have issues that I feel that I would be scared to have evaluated and would not like the results.
-1	My primary care sent me to the ER because I was having sever pain in my left leg and it had a hard lump.  She was worried it was a blood clot, but I knew it was not.  I argued with her but she still wanted me to go to Er and have a doppler done to rule out blood clot. So I went, and after two hours and a test they concluded it was phlebitis and gave me a RX for antibiotics and keep the leg lifted with ice on it.
1	When I had cancer, I was able to research and make informed decisions about my care. My surgeon was pleased that I was so well informed about my situation and could participate knowledgeably in decision making.
-1	My father-in-law had fallen and my mother-in-law wondered if she should call an ambulance because he was just dizzy. I told her to call one because he'd taken more medication than he was supposed to and this could be an overdose or something like that, or he could just be dizzy and lost his balance.
-1	Have received continuing, excellent health care during a military career, and after retirement through the Veterans Administration.
1	I have no experience in my life where I demonstrated any medical knowledge.  I depend on info from my doctor, pharmacists, or my sister who is a nurse.
-1	I've had bronchitis many times in life so I know what it is when I get it. I'm always correct when it comes to that
-1	i know just from what i have heard in the past and what i have been thru in the past and that is all i can understand
-1	None applicable. I can't think of nothing. Nothing comes to mind. There is probably something. I just can't think of nothing right off hand.
1	I really can't think of any particular situation. I have always tried to learn from my own health issues and from other people's health issues, so that I take better care of myself
1	Having regular doctors visits. Going to college. Researching things on my own. Watching medical related television shows.
1	I feel fully informed about my coronary artery disease.I know about my blockages and the need for me to exercise, eat right, and lower my colesterol level.
-1	When I was 15 I was diagnosed with bipolar. I had to attend doctors offices, labs, and pharmacies instead of dances, and classes.  I had to grow up fast and had to be responsible at a young age.
1	"this is a non issue.  there is nothing in my life that allows me to demonstrate any ""knowledge"" of medical issues. "
-1	my knowledge is just like doctors i look up everything and research everything i dont know. no 1 can know everything!
-1	I went to the doctor after having a reaction to a bee sting, the doctor treated me with antihistamines and gave me an emergency bee sting kit. i now carry at kit with me at all times and replace on the scheduled time frame
-1	I just search online or just from being a parent. I have taken enough of my kids to the docotor to know the basics and I know how to tell if something is wrong with me
-1	I face issues with my husband every day.  He has dementia which is what makes me anxious. He had gone to a doctor that said his blood pressure was fine that day and he was on medication for high blood pressure.  He told him he can stop taking the pills so we changed doctors.
-1	I am pretty well informed about my personal medical issues and I do look things up in the internet if I want to know about other conditions that I am not familiar with.
1	About 20 years ago I fell down on some ice and broke my right wrist. It didn't seem serious at first but I soon realized that I was going into shock and I knew what to do to not make it worse. I called for help instead of doing something foolish.
-1	This is a weird question. When most people are confronted with something new they often don't know much about it. I guess you could say I am knowledgable when it comes to pregnancy. I know how my pregnancies go and what I am most likely to expect. For instance, my BP usually spikes during third trimester, so it's no surprise to me when my dr tells me it's spiked during third trimester but I also know how to keep it under control without dr input
1	I have worked in medical field for 30 years before retirement 15 yrs ago.  Tho the actual numbers may be slightly off, they are not likely to be too far off.
-1	trail and error, research, reading, expearimenting, common sense...these such things add to it and additional things.......i have never been to college but they just teach whats already known
-1	Working as a caregiver in a group home has taught me a lot about medicine and behaviors. But not good with math
-1	Not sure really I judge how I feel and that depends on if I go and receive care I don't bother unless I really feel i need the care and go and receive it
1	Why are you asking all these questions? I have experience and knowledge from college courses taken and life experience 
-1	I was given the option to have a procedure done to see if they could get rid of my irregulare heartbeat. I decided not to because it could always come back and I would still have to take medication. I decided there was no upside
-1	I had spinal stenosis and a herniated disc and ended up having 2 back surgeries.  Started with minimal arthroscopic procedure and when that did not work I had invasive surgery that ended up with a spinal fusion
-1	I have depression and got help. I have hypothroid and take meds. Feel better.i am obese but watch calories and started a gym to help that
-1	dont understand question, but i guess it would be when i had a toe amputated from gangrene as a result of being non=compliant with insulin shots, and became aware of blood sugar totals
-1	i used to work in the medical field. that is how i have vast knowledge that i do. so when i go to the doctor thats how i know what to ask
1	I can't think of any one experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	My knowledge of health and medicine is to listen learn and ask questions as I go, if I'm not sure and from time to time that is the case I will seak out more information.
1	WHEN I WAS DIAGNOSED WITH BREAST CANCER IN 2012 I HAD NO IDEA WHAT TO EXPECT.  I HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF WHAT TO EXPECT FOR THE BIOPSY, THE TREATMENT, THE SURGERY, THE RECOVERY, OR THE RECONSTRUCTION. I LEARNED A LOT THROUGH THE PROCESS AND AM MUCH MORE AWARE OF MY BODY NOW.
-1	There is nothing specific in my life experience that comes to mind that would adequately answer this question at this time. 
1	I have learned much about asthma because my daughter has this condition. I have learned about triggers and management as to help her to live with asthma. 
-1	Any time there was these types of experiences I would actually ask my doctor to help me make sense of this explanation.  I am not college graduate in human medical terminology.
-1	I'm a healthcare professional so I have to use my healthcare knowledge everyday.  Not only at work but at home also.  I noticed certain things in my son as he was growing up.  As he was learning to walk I noticed something was wrong with his feet or his toes to be more specific.  I felt he needed medical help so I made him an appointment with our doctor.  Come to fine out my sons ligaments in his toes where shrinking causing them to curl up under his foot which made it very difficult for him to walk properly
1	Was in a Very, Very Bad Motorcycle Accident and had Many injuries which some are long lasting and still with me for life. I have spent many years in and out of Hospitals and Dr's offices
-1	I was unsure of a lot of these questions mostly because I am terrible at math. It made me anxious because I felt like I was taking a test
-1	Worked as a clinic assistant in a public school for 25 years. Cared for sick students, performed state required screenings. Performed blood sugar checks and cared for diabetics
-1	When in my middle 50's I began experiencing menopause symptoms. Clearly the symptoms lead to a doctor visit, where I was correctly diagnosed. Prescribed medication has helped somewhat.
-1	When my son was an infant he became jaudnice and doctors didn't know what was causing it .I toke him all different doctors and  hospitals in NYC . They did blood tests, ultrasounds and more nobody knew . Finally I went to JohnHopkins in Baltimore, Maryland and they said he was fine .
-1	In 2013 i had a car accident where i had many i juries including i ternal brain bleeding, this experience helped me understand more about medicine so that i can take better care of my self and know what i take
-1	I have made many medical decisions in my life. This includes deciding to lose weight to help me lower my blood pressure. I was able to bring my blood pressure down, so I didn't need to go on medication.
-1	Loss of eye, pneumonia three times, father was doctor, various illnesses and surgeries, general interest and awareness of medical conditions and problems.
-1	Have had Type 2 diabetes for 16+ years now. Know my optimum blood sugar level range and adjust my insulin before each and every injection. Have been told many times I know more than my doctor.
-1	i don't really know  any be i had a mammograms and it was good and all the other test i took was no problem think God . only my Lupus was bad and i stay in the hospital for a few day
-1	I am not sure but I think if I eat right and exercise properly that it will expand my life expectancy for quite a while
1	Annual (minimum) Doctor (PCP, Dentist, Optometrist) visits while growing up, and for much of my adult life.  While in Vietnam, acquired Plasmodium Falciprium.  Atrial Fibrilation.  I've always been an active and omnivorous reader.  If an artical catches my attention, it gets read.
1	I have had several but one that stands out is when my Mother passed out in a convenience store.  She has low blood sugar and when she came to, someone wanted to give her chocolate.  I knew this would be a bad idea and convinced them to give her orange juice.  This didn't work as she was experiencing vertigo due to an issue with misalignment of inner ear crystals.
-1	I injured myself and was sent to a trauma center and the drs. Explained everything to me so I can understand somewhat what my medical issues
-1	I don't know much about numbers but it is explained to me I could understand. Numbers to me is very difficult don't understand much
1	My wife experienced an illness and I researched home remedies online. After participating in the remedies my wife got better and she was healed without having to go to the doctor or have medicine prescribed. 
1	I have learned how to take my blood pressure using a stethoscope and a spigramonter and also how to check my pulse manually.
-1	I was saying little black spots and I knew that this was common with high blood pressure so I went to the doctor and had my blood pressure checked and it was high
-1	My son was not doing well and started to get worse. His breathing increased and I knew that for his age his breaths per minute should be 20-30 but he was breathing about 60-70. We took him to the hospital where the immediately put him on a breathing machine because his breathing was dangerous and if I didn't bring him in when I did it could have been his life.
-1	Studied medical coding in college, instructor said I was good at it when I took a test.  Have put ice on when something was swollen
-1	never had to be knowledge about my health or medical issues, i been pretty lucky so far without having to deal with any health issues
-1	i can't really recall much but it was when my mother was having a stroke when i could recognize the symptoms and gel help
-1	a few years back while I was working construction I began to notice that I could not walk more than a 1000 feet without extreme discomfort in my legs. I suspected it had to do with circulation since my father had PAD as well as my eldest brother. I was right, and fortunate to find a great vascular Doctor who put two stints in me which corrected my discomfort.
1	I always go to the doctor with more information and knowledge than she expects me to have.  I had Bells Palsy a few years ago and when I went to see her, I told her what was wrong with me and she examined me and was surprised that I would've known what was wrong.
1	Had open heart surgery and had to learn a lot about the heart, the surgery itself, how to prevent another blockage, and about the medicine I had to take to insure it doesn't happen again
1	I got multiple medium-sized blood clots in both of my lungs and found out that I have three blood clotting disorders. This experience taught me a lot about blood clotting disorders, blood thinning medications and about choosing specialists.
-1	When I had an issue I knew that I could look it up online to see what it was by typing in my symptoms and also by telling my doctor about my issues and seeing what they had to say comated to what I found out
-1	I have depression for the last thirty years. My son went to college and was starting to have anxiety and disturbed sleep patterns. I suggested he see a psych and he was given meds to help him cope.
1	Was feeling tired before an annual checkup. I had a stress test done which indicated an afib problem
-1	I developed Rheumatoid arthritis about 10 years ago and from my research, I found that it is an autoimmune disease where my body sends out white blood cells, which normally only attack infections, to healthy joints causing pain and eventual distortion of the joints affected. 
1	When I found out I was diabetic, I started reading up on blood sugar level control. Also read about exercising and diet.  I also started eating healthier.
-1	my family has a lot of health issus and i try to learn about condsitions so i look up imformation  plus i like to tay up to date 
1	I became caregiver for my developmentally disabled younger brother and became completely responsible for his medical care over 10 years ago. He has had several health issues over that time and I have been able to resolve most of those  issues.
1	I was showering and felt a lump in my breast and called the doctor that day. Since the lump was found in stage one. I was totally cured and have lived happily ever after for 20 years. 
-1	My experience as a child sparked a keen interest in how we approach While the problems inherent in our health care system are not If you say that you have perseverance, describe an event in your life that demonstrates perseverance.
1	i have been interested in health because it keeps us moving and going. i think it is cool to understand how the body really works and what we can do to improve our health
-1	I was diagonised with high colostral and diabetics  I had a stint place in my heart I was prescribed medine  and excersise daily and to eat foods that would help lower my levels I have accomplished some but others still require work
-1	I really don't know I don't have anything to say. Im not really sure.  All I can say is most of the knowledge that I know is from the internet, that's where I get most of my information from.
-1	when I had a severe allergy attack and knew exactly what I needed to do to help me breath. I also used bendadryl to help me
-1	I go through it everyday having to take care of my husband who is a diabetic and I am his caregiver so I deal with his medical issues on a daily basis
-1	A mammogram is used to screen women for breast cancer. False positives are tests that incorrectly show a positive result. 85% of positive mammograms are actually false positives. If 1,000 women receive mammograms, and 200 are told there is an abnormal finding, how many wom
-1	I dont know.  Sometimes its just common sense.  Sometimes you have to do the math.  Somtimes you just need to think about things to undertstand them.  I dont know if all my answers above were right but if it were scenarios for myself or my own family i would make sure i had the right answers 100 percent of the time. 
-1	My daughter ate at seafood at a restaurant and immediately upon returning home she was violently ill. I determined sha had food poisoning
-1	There were too many situations like that. Example - I explained to the patients the meaning of the consent forms for experimental treatments.
-1	ive had sick family members and mulitple visits to hospitals and ive always wanted to know if cures were real but its about maintaining your health
-1	i really dont know. Im not that good at this. my mind get all boggley when I try to concentrate. not really sure why.
-1	I don't know what you're asking me now. I'm getting annoyed with the math questions, so I feel like you're trying to trick me somehow. I am tired and losing focus. 
-1	I have had many surgeries in my life and use over the counter medication to treat migraine headaches
-1	Having to take care of my dear elderly fater(deceased) now .  The health condition of his health and the ways the doctors prescribed educated me to a certain extent especially relating to congestive heart problems, stroke signs and mini-strokes or TIA's.  My mothers conditions were related to dementia and progressive dementia treatments and care.
-1	I experience ADHD and add, bipolar disorder, depression, and autism so I fell how people are when they have problem in my area.
-1	I have not really had any major health issues. Ive been blessed to be for the most part fairly healthy without any problems
1	A few years ago I went in to see a licensed practial nurse about blood in the urine. While there, my blood pressure was checked, and it was high. That was the main concern of the doctor. He also talked to me about the blood in the urine, which was due to an enlarged prostate. He gave me a prescription for both high blood pressure and for an enlarged prostate. I had to process all this information and decide what to do. In time, I understood that my blood pressure was not as bad as what I thought, and that I needed to keep checking on the enlarged prostate. This was a lot to process, but with God's help, I was able to understand and respond to this information. 
-1	have no experiences I care to relate and feel it is none of your business this is an intrusive question
-1	I cared for my sister who was ventilator dependent for 20 years in my home.  I sterilized her equipment and changed her hoses, hooked up oxygen, etc.  I also cared for my mom who had a stroke.
1	When I went to the emergency room and told them I was having pain from kidney stones. I have had several kidney stones and am well acquainted with what the symptoms are.
1	Not difficult at all. I simply followed my physician's instructions.  There have been many lab tests and prescription, along with regular clinic visits.  
1	I have been a caregiver for two people, I have taken first aid numerous times in the military and have completed first responder training.  I am not good at math however and the answers above may not be right..........
-1	I recently experience some symptoms that I thought were indicative of a UTI. When I went to the doctor, my urine sample did not show any abnormalities. However, when the urine was sent off for culture, it showed 2 different forms of bacteria.
-1	I use to work as a certified nurses aid. While I wasn't involved in giving medication, there were still many things I needed to know. 
1	I don't have any that come to mind. I know that some of my health knowledge will come in handy now that I have kids.
-1	I studied dental health symptoms on the internet as I noticed things in my personal dental health.  So when I went to the dentist, I was prepared for the worst case scenario even though I knew a worst case scenario wasn't likely.  It helped manage the anxiety of the unknown.
-1	Have been able to  manage arthritis symptoms with herbal remedies and lifestyle changes, thereby saving my body the effects of long term prescription drugs
-1	I was diagnosed with a brain aneurysm and possible MS.  After having gone through so many tests and screening over the last several years, I feel I have ore knowledge of health issue than I do 4 yrs ago.  I try to read what I can on these diagnoses.
-1	My mother and father both had catastrophic health issues, my mother emphysema  and my father leukemia and emphysema. I had to learn how to use oxygen tanks and oxygenator machines to help them both. 
-1	I think just knowing my body and any problems I might have has further my medical knowledge in the greatest way because it is the best learning experience
1	I don't have any experiences like this.  I am only doing simple algebra and reading instructions carefully.
1	Going through the process of being pregnant as a high-risk patient and delivering a healthy baby required reading and filling out a lot of paperwork, in addition to many interactions with nurses and doctors.
-1	I recently went to my doctor who looked at my EKG. He said that I had an irregular heartbeat. I asked him if it was a PVC. He said that I was correct. I told him that I had it before and it went away on it's own.
-1	When I got shingles, I understood what severe pain was for about a month and how there was nothing I could do about it at that time when I got them.
-1	I am not really sure at all, but nutrition is my bag. Medical issues is not mu=y experites at all. these questions are not for everyone who does know medical issuese.
-1	I am no good at math, that is why I have so many questions. I recently was told by my pharmascist that my mg for a medicine was no longer covered by my insuranse. I asked him if there were any other mg available and yes there was so we worked out to take 3 pills instead of the 1mg that was not covered. Same dosage as before just have to take more pills to get insurance to cover it.
-1	I had a stent in my heart when I was 43 years old do to smoking and bad eating habits and stress in my life so I DO KNOW ABOUT HEART decasie runs in my family  . all of my siblings take perventived  medcenie
-1	I had a fever and nausea I was sure I had an infection. And it turned out that I did. I knew from symptoms what was wrong
-1	I have a lay mans knowledge, that said, at the first sign of a health condition for me or for any member of my family I let the appropriate doctor test and diagnose any health problems that may be occurring.
-1	i cant htink of anything. ive never been sick nor has anyone in my family been. we're all pretty healthy.
1	i had been diagnosed with cancer  and wa sable to have surgery to remove it all  as of today i amd cancer free and am optomistic i will stay that way in the future
-1	i have no experince in health knowledge in taking this survey i felt like a completer idiot. I did not enjoy this at all
-1	This was one of the worst surveys ever.....I don't need to know statistics, my doctors does and then can explain it so I understand.   This is what doctors are for
-1	I woke up one morning with blood in mu urine. I drank some water and checked the situation, more blood, called the Dr's office explained my sym and got an appointment. I kept them informed until I got to the office and had a series of tests which indicated I had an infection
-1	i had mri while I was in the hospital, they found nothing, they gave me one everyday for 11 Days, I think they should not have given me one everyday!
-1	Currently dealing with a range of issues with the Veterans Administration due to my military serivce.  In addressing each of the issues, I have interacted with primary care physicians, nurses, lab techs, as well as specialists.
-1	On numerous occasions I have read my blood and lab reports which gave the ranges of acceptance.  I worked in a hospital for over 10 years and am familiar with more medical terms than the average individual
-1	In 2012 I was diagnosed with breast cancer. Since Feb. 2014 I have been cancer free. I been through my share of doctors, nurses, chemo and radiation to know that every single medical person out there has there own beliefs not everyone has your best interest at heart. 
-1	I have worked in the medical field for 17 years I worked in the oncology area and that helped me learn a lot  
-1	My 2 year old nephew was diagonsed with type one diabetes and we have to count his carbohydrates and watch his blood sugar
-1	When caring for my Mother who had terminal cancer I encountered many types of insurance forms, and hospice  that needed to be completed and filed.
1	My mother was an office manager for doctors offices throughout my childhood.  During and after high school I worked for her office and handled a lot of medical records.  Because of this experience I am pretty familiar with medical terminology. 
-1	finding out my mother had Alzheimer's and understanding what that would mean for her and for our family since I'd read up on this; and I now do everything I can to protect myself.
-1	Going to the doctor with my husband for gastro issues and they wanting him on a bad medicine and it was under a law suit.  So I let the doctor know and it was under a law suit. 
1	That can occur almost daily but the most significant recent event was when my daughter had an emergency appendectomy.
-1	I can't really remember anything and at this point the survey is starting to get frustrating to the point that I don't even want to continue
1	Diagnosed with thyroid disorder in my 20's, I did a lot of reading on the subject in addition to listening to my doctors' disclosures. It prompted me to see my health as an ongoing process rather than a treat-as-needed project. I learned that medical tests are valuable indicators but subject to variables and can point to other issues that might need attention as well.  I underwent treatment that resolved problems at the onset but now am dealing with other issues (40 years later) that evolved from that original treatment.  I experience anxiety over these things but have a lot more knowledge about it all and that makes me feel that I can conquer the problems.
-1	WELL WAS IN A MAJOR CAR WRECK 10 YEARS AGO NOT MY FAULT. BROKE MY NECK AN BACK IN COMA FOR 3 MONTHS. NEVER WALK AGAIN BUT AN DOING THAT JUST FINE.
-1	When a family member had open heart surgery, I was able to ask the doctor questions that helped put the family member at ease
-1	My mother was admitted at a hospital for a long time the then I got chance to visit hospital most of the time and I have gathered knowledge. 
-1	thankfully i have never been hit with a medical life threatening medical diagnosis. I usually see a doctor when I am ill with a common cold. nothing more serious
-1	Well we were in a doctors office and i was asked a question but nobody knew the answer until my mom ask someone closeby and then all of the sudden i remembered the answer.
-1	I was told that I have disease that will make it harder for me to lose weight than an average person, was also told of the fertility issues directly from this disease . So was told to get my health in order if I wanted to have children and lower my risk of other diseases.
1	I was being treated by a doctor who was explaining things to someone shadowing him. When he couldn't think of an answer, I answered for him.
1	Being diagnosed with breast cancer, brought this disease to the forefront.  After seeking professional health and much personal research, I felt (at that time) I was knowledgeable about it.  Since then so much has changed, that if I was diagnosed again - I would have to start the search over.
1	I have never had to demonstrate my knowledge of health nor medical issues before, just questions about my health whenever I have ever visited a doctor or healthcare service worker.
-1	I took some general health courses thinking that I might go into the medical field. I did not go into any detail but at least got the basics.
-1	My daughter gets ear infections all the time due to having very small ear canals that don't let her wax drain properly.  So in I know when she has ear infections or when one is about to start to know she will need meds.
-1	Ive had to learn, Im disabled now, so its best to know what I can expect from my disability in the future.
-1	I had to have a biopsy of my breast after looking like a mass was there however after the biopsy it was an infection and easily treated.
-1	I have had high blood pressue for neatly 4 years now.  My sister has diabeties and has for over 15 years. My mom had a stroke. My grand father had alzhiemers
-1	I don't know much but picking the right doctor important to me they have to be knowable when it my health
1	I WAS THE PRIMARY CAREGIVER/GUARDIAN OF MY MOTHER(AGE 90) WHO HAD SEVERE ALZHEIMER'S, CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE, GERD. SHE FELL AND BROKE HER HIP AND HAD TO HAVE A STABILIZATION SURGERY AND REHAB.  SHE DIED THREE MONTHS LATER. 
1	I had been catheterized for a substantial amount of time and was told that I could expect some blood in my urine. I continued to see blood and began to think this wasn't normal. I told my doc, had a cysto and was told I had low grade bladder cancer,from which I have fully recovered.
-1	High blood pressure if I stress over my worries one day at a time I have a history of strokes in my family in I'd want to be mext
-1	Almost too many to relate.  Because of family history, I have learned that I am a candidate for diabetes and heart disease/stroke.  I have taken steps to make sure that I stay as healthy as possible in order to not get/have any of these.
1	There have been a lot of instances in my life requiring my understanding of medical issues. They have been personal and/or have involved my husband or children. I see no need to parade them for you.
1	When i had my son he had a high bilirubin level. I learned what this was as well as the treatment and causes. I was very interested in learning anything new that makes me more knowledgeable about illnesses
-1	i have not had any particular medical issues that i would have to show any medical knowledge of anything.  i have enough common sense to research and check on the latest data
1	Certainly not doing this survey! Numbers and I don't get along, don't know how to work out percentages for most things!!  Can't think of any particular experience where I had to demonstrate knowledge of medical issues.
-1	My husband was sick for eight years,  He had multiple issues and I was his primary caregiver.  the medical world is not kind.  It was necessary for me to be a strong advocate.
-1	I haven't experienced any kinds of health or medical issues in my entire life.  So far, I've been fortunate with my health and I prefer to keep it that way.
-1	This is a bad, bad survey.  I won't answer any of this because this is none of your business.  What more can I tell you?
-1	I don't have any issues but did have a false positive screening for a mammogram which was proven to be wrong
-1	When I go to eat and have to check carbs and calories on a label. I alway check them to make sure they are in the correct range for me to eat. 
-1	I experienced two strokes in my life.  One in 2013 and one in 2014.  They changed my life tremendously because they caused me to be disabled.
-1	i do not have any medical issues . i am a vegan and i try to run and eat healthy as much as i can to stay healthy as possible 
-1	I used to take medical transcription course and I was doing pretty good on it. When I see different medication names I can sometimes know what that medication is for.
-1	I have medical issues is that movement disorder . i have to take four medicine. I could not sleep well at all.
1	My first husband was diagnosed with metastatic lung cancer and I was able to help him make decisions regarding his treatment options and explain medications
1	had a gallbladder attack a few years ago.  went to the hospital (Kaiser) and the doctor said to go home and he would operate in 8 weeks.  gave me a prescription.  the next day i could not function enough to go to work.  went back to hospital and got a doctor who operated right away.
1	I never had one because I'm not a doctor or nurse or other medical professional. I don't like math or science
1	When my daughter was having a hard time eating because her throat hurt I knew that it was likely strep throat or allergies. I took her to the doctor and I was told what I already knew, she had strep throat and was contagious.
-1	I don't claim to be super knowledgeable about the medical field but I understood completely when the doctor says I have the flu 
-1	My mother In Law had open heart surgery and the surggens gave me all the material to read and there was a lot to read and understand
-1	I can't think of any experience other than over time knowing what was wrong when my children were sick.
1	Did years of moonlighting in hospitals (transcription), diabetic friends/relatives, managing my own rare/incurable autoimmune disorder.
-1	I have asthma so I can tell when I am starting wieh a attack. I willl become short of breath and start to wheeze. the I know to start my meds to prevent from getting anu worse
-1	I knew I had to start an exercise program when I found out I had osteoporosis. I also had to start taking medication to start rebuilding my bones and eat foods high in calcium.
1	Explaining my cancer diagnosis and treatment to primary care doctor and othr doctors. as able to explain treatment and potential results when discussing treatment for other matters.
-1	I'm not quite sure what you want. I had a heart attack in 2013. I didn't even think I was having one because the symptoms were different than what they tell you.
-1	I try to watch what I can, read labels if necessary, try to follow dr's orders. My mother was more interested with vitamin supplements and I try to figure out which ones that I need.
1	YEARS AGO IN 1945 I BECAME ILL. GOT UP AT NIGHT TO GO TO BATHROOM, MY LEGS WOULD NOT HOLD ME. O PLOPPED DOWN ON TOILET INSTEAD OF SITTING NATURALLY. POLIO WAS IN EPIDEMIC NUMBERS. DOCTOR SAID I HAD FLU, I KNEW IT WAS POLIO.
-1	I smoked cigarettes for 50 years and recently quit because I knew that quitting would either improve my health or prevent future health issues.
-1	i feel like my health is pprettyaverge i like it alot i go to school play footbsall cleanm the house and have the averge health style. 
-1	i typically research and read most medical study and articals to keep up to date on the latest information on good health and parituclarly anything I come across relate to my health issues.
-1	I haven't really had an experience that tested my knowledge of health or medical issues. The only time I was put to the test would be within school or testing.
-1	When I've had a cold or the flu I used what I know from experience, t.v. and Google that I had it. Then I knew over the counter medicine would help me.
-1	I have some knowledge regarding my health especially my mental health. I am very aware of my depression and anxiety. I am aware of how I am supposed to deal with my stuff.
-1	i have had  a mammomgram to satisfy the doctor that never returns my calls. and could care less bout me.
-1	I came down with fatty liver after my son was born and the Dr told my family I had 3 day to live unless he did certain things that need to be done and my family gave him consent to do whatever need to be done and because of that I'm here today and my son is now 21 thanks to the dr
-1	when i went to the ER for a double ear infection and learned i also had hypertension. i was given a sheet all about it along with the prescriptions.
-1	working in medical records for 19 years  and experiencing maybe miscarriages  - my last one  I knew before the doctor explained to me what was happening.
-1	I have had diabes for 5 years and taking medications to help me.  I am trying to lower my A1C by exercising and eating less carbs
-1	I really don't know any. I can't remember any at the moment. My memory is bad due to a traumatic brain injury
-1	My life has demonstrated medical issues when I started migraine headaches. The headaches affected my daily life.
-1	i wanted to be a nurse and study some. I also have a special needs daughter so i am always teaching myself about issues 
-1	i can't really recall anything, except once i saw a customer of mine drink part of a beer, begin sweating and start to pass out.  i called paramedics, and he had sunstroke
1	Took a job working in pharmaceutical industry and regularly conversed with medical staff regarding different pharmaceuticals effect on different patients.
-1	On a camping trip, my riend slipped on a wet rock a twisted his ankle. I disinfected it, wrapped it and made an improvised crutch. I told him to elevate the foot. 24 hours later the swelling did go down.
-1	I was tasked with aiding and caring for my grandmother who was on dialysis. She also lost an eye to glaucoma, helping her with day to day things like taking medication was my job daily 
-1	I suddenly had constipation which I had never had before and it was not responding to any of the conventional treatments and I just felt that it was not really a bowel problem. I thought it might be connected to my thyroid because I had been having other symptoms of hypothyroidism which were confirmed, but when correcting that with medication still wasn't really helping the constipation issue I kept exploring until I had convinced my doctor to check into the possibility that it could be a neurological issue. After some tests it was determined that I had a couple of herniated disks in my neck and while nobody would suggest that this could be causing the problem I agreed to have cervical fusion surgery to alieviate the pressure and once I was off the pain medication after the surgery I started having regular bowel movements again.
-1	I was told I had cancer and had to read up on various treatments, where they were performed, clinical trials
-1	Jehovah the same way to your house and it will be the same way to your house and it will be the same way to to do it away. sex and the other half type your comment here topics. sex and and it will be the same way to your house
-1	I have some medical issues but I deal with them day by day they aren't that bad I mean I have a bump on my leg and bumps on my back but they don't bother me too much
1	I had been working hard in my yard one Saturday and went to bed late at night.  When I woke up in the morning my whole left side felt tingly like it was asleep.  I knew right away that something was wrong and suspected I had had a mild stroke.  I went to hospital and later went to Mayo Clinic where it was confirmed that I had a stroke.
1	a pacemaker was potentially needed and my heart was missing an occasional beat causing dizziness.  I had a choice of not having the pacemaker or dealing with possibly having more dizzy spells which could start a heart attack or lose of life.
-1	I have always been my Mom's healthcare proxy, involved in her health, surgeries, doctors appointments,  ever aspect. I've always been the one to ask all the questions, and to get her help when and where I could.
-1	I once had a patient that had just finished up an antibiotic for pneumonia. He looked awful.  I asked him how he felt,  he said tired. I asked if he had checked his bs lately ( he was not great at taking care of himself). Turned out his bs was 400's! He was lucky! Off  to the hospital we went!
1	"I cannot recall any experience where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical ""issues""-- not even sure what you mean by ""issues"" in this context."
-1	I quit going to doctors over 20 years ago.  With proper care, good hygiene and common sense, I believe one is able to care for themselves adequately.  The medical field has become an ineffective maize of red tape and inappropriate control by the insurance companies to control their payouts, often denying patients the best or most effective treatment to preserve their health.
-1	My son played Division I men's soccer.  He has suffered from at least 4 concussions.  I usually use the data from the Impact Test to determine when his symptoms are back to base line.
-1	I can't really explain a time where I was I had the complete knowledge of the medical issue and at the time I really didn't want to know.
1	Requesting my pathology results from my breast biopsies. Since 2 tests were run, only one was evident in my chart. My chemo was written based on that one result,which was not a very reliable test. I requested to see the other results, upon them finding those results, my entire chemotgerapy regimen was changed.i am here almost 7 years later answering this survey
1	Caring for patients in Air Force hospital and reporting their condition and vital sign to the nurse in charge.
1	Worked in a clinical laboratory for 40 years performing lab tests, also performed quality control and regulatory compliance.
-1	I have had several health issues like TMJ, an abnormal mammogram, on all medical issues, I do my homework from the allopathic to alternative medicine.
-1	I just understand that I am not really know much about all illness questions that I think that I know a lot about them
-1	I've had ulcers, an incurable skin disease, chronic tendinitis, and many issues misdiagnosed which made me become more involved in self management and learning more about my health issues
-1	I had my first back surgery which 2 disc had to be removed.  10 years later, I begin to have the same symptoms that I had with my first back surgery.  I went to a neuro doctor, and sure enough, the other sides of my disc had reptured.  A rib as taken from my upper rib cage and fused into my 2nd and 3 lower disc.  This was 1981.  I do not have any problems today as I am very careful of what I do.
1	Although I feel that I have a pretty good knowledge of health an medical issues; I can't really think of an experience,other than a few instances of rendering emergency first aid to others, that demonstrates my knowledge. 
-1	I was sick with stomach issues and I was led divinely to the answers and medicines that would make me well again. 
1	Worked as a medical assistant for 5years, had 6 children 2 with neurology problems. One has epilepsy, and one had neurosurgery at 2 months of age for sagital craniostenosis
1	When I had a test for cholesterol, I measured the results against the norms to see where I fit in for each category. When I visit a doctor, I can usually understand what they are telling me and can ask appropriate questions.
-1	I had cervical cancer, which killed my mother in the early 50's.  I learned the difference  in the treatment.
-1	I had torn cartilage in my knee and had to have the cartilage scraped and I knew that when it was fdone that the pain would be gone
-1	I had a son with an autoimmune disorder that took constant and are research to find cures to bring him to remission
-1	I was having tingling in my right foot. Doctor diagnosed me with PVD and recommended exercise and diet changes. Problem turned out to be blocked bilateral aorta in groin. Found partially blocked aorta above heart flaking off and blocking bilateral. Stent inserted but too late to save both feet from being amputated.
1	I knew how to stop the bleeding on a deep gash . I learned how to do this after taking a first aid class.
-1	My experience indicates that this is one of the least well constructed surveys I have ever had the displeasure of working on.  Not only are the questions poorly presented the english and grammar is of poor quality.  In summary, this is one of the most disgusting surveys I have ever had the displeasure of completing!
-1	i have had a lot of medical drama in the last ten years in my life and the lives of relatives that seems to never end
1	My wife suffered a stroke while being treated for septicemia. Her bloodpressure was very low (30/60) for over an hour. As a result, she sustained anoxic encephalophy (sp?). Her kidneys had failed, but were returning, and I was able to decide to place her on comfort care because the quality of her life should she recover the use of her kidneys and consciousness would be unacceptable.
-1	I know whether I have a sinus infection or if it is just allergies. If you push on your cheekbone under your eyes and it is tender, you most likely have a sinus infection. However,  if there is no pressure  aka no pain, then your respiratory issues are most likely caused by allergies. This helps me treat otc issues. 
1	I believe just being a parent you learn what is serious and what is a normal thing that the body can recover from in a short period of time not requiring a doctor visit. I don't have a dramatic experience to share.
1	For the last 9 years of my mother's life, I had to be her go between in medical decisions. I had to explain medical issues to her and then help her to decide the proper course of treatment for her.
-1	 im not really sure. this survey required a bit too much math problems. not all ofus are that smart.Imburned out now
-1	an experience in your life that demonstrated your knowledge of health or medical issues is i dont know at all what so ever so i am not sure and i really do not know and stuff like that and ya
-1	I really can not say of an actual experience that I have had about my knowledge of health and or medical issues. I have a pretty good medical record.
-1	I don't know I have worked in the dental field for 25 years and use a lot of medical words related to the dentition but not sure I can answer this question otherwise
-1	I strongly feel my life is good . i had a scare in my life when i was young. i have now be taking very good of myself 
-1	When my niece was experiencing symptoms of apendicitis.She was curled up on the couch and had pain when she walked and no appetite. 
1	I have been studying and writing books on natural healing andnatural medicine for over thirty-five years.
1	this entire survey is insulting and asinine. I hope it is over soon, because I am getting very tired of it.
1	I have never shown off my knowledge to anyone but myself, so I can't fully answer this question. Aside from simply guessing at people with a potential cold or touch of the flu.
-1	I was diagnosed with testicular cancer and was told that I had two options to help become cancer free. We the information I was giving, i made the decision that I felt comfortable with and I don't regret it.
-1	I have not have this kind of experiences in my life, just the learning things in school, learning through my life
-1	I was diagnosed with a.v. malformation in my hand after the surgeon opened me up to remove what he thought was a cyst and found a mess of veins and abnormal blood cells. Two surgeries later the pain came back and I went to my old doctor and it was unfathomable to him that this condition could be in my hand. I had to explain it and get my records from the surgeon who wouldn't see me due to a change in my insurance. 
-1	I can't recall any particular occasions, except when I've suffered from Pneumonia and the physician would not first perform a CT scan immediately (on my spouses and my information) to diagnose me, since my past pneumonia occurrences did not show up with simple diagnostic chest X-rays. After 5 days of my illness, the physician finally did a CT scan and it showed double pneumonia in more than once instance. 
-1	I do a lot of research I got very sick when my 13yr old son was killed 32yrs later I'm still suffering from the experience mentally and physically  
-1	I had a sharp pain on my right side. I did some research and decided with my risk factors that I probably needed to have my gall bladder removed.  My doctor agreed; however, we both turned out to be wrong. When my test results came back, I actually had colon cancer.
-1	Do we have to get a chance to get into the right questions and make sure you ask all the right questions and make sure you ask all the right questions and make sure you ask all the right questions
1	When I was diagnosed with having a epilepsy. I was able to understand what the doctor was saying and was able to tell him the things I should look for or things I feel prior to a seizure and also tell how I could help alleviate/prevent future seizures. 
-1	when I rode a mechanical bull and was thrown of and broke my ankle.I knew it was broke and found someone to take me to the hospital
1	I worked for a health insurance company for a brief amt of time and I did customer service. I reviewed the customer's insurance plans to help them out.
-1	I was diagnosed with a hiatal hernia and was given 4 different medications to take by the gastronterologist. I was given a list of foods and other things that could aggravate the hernia and cause the acid refulx to worsen. I cut out all of the foods on the list as well as the smoking and i haven't had any concern in the past year with this issue.
-1	emergency measures of family members and to take life saving measures for them or go to the hospital
1	 i know that my blood presure and weight are corelated. the more i weigh the more likely it is that i will have a higher blood pressure reading than i would  have had if my weight was lower.
-1	I honestly have no clue. I am just a normal person with a normal grasp of health and medical conditions. I am noing special
-1	I was in a car wreck and my legs were crushed. The doctors had me in morphine for pain. I learned a lot about medicine.
-1	I took health assessments at my previous job.  These make me aware of high cholesterol, blood pressure, and effects of being overweight.
-1	When my husband cut his finger, we wrapped it up to stop the bleeding and kept it above his heart until he received medical attention.
-1	none I CAN THINK OF, DO NOT CARE TO ELABORATE ON ALL MY MEDICAL PROBLEMS AT THIS TIME, I THINK TERE ARE CERTAIN ILLNESSES THAT SHOULD REMAIN PERSONNAL
-1	being older you have to keep up on medical issues more take arthris i have it an do a lot of   edcutating myself 
-1	I have high blood pressure and for years it had not been regulated so when I got pregnant with my baby it went down and I came off medicine, but when I delivered it went right back up that was 6 years ago and now it's under control.
-1	When my dad had a heart attack I seemed to automaticlike know what to do. I was able to give him nitro and an aspirin. Dr. Said my actions were a lifesaver for him. I guess from watching so much TV and shows like Grey's Anatomy I picked up alot along the way. 
1	I have had several family members with many medical issues so I learned to pay attention and try to understand what was going on.
-1	Well I am not really clear on what you want. But i have Afib and I have found that by relaxing and breathing just right you can get it to run right. 
1	I had a major surgery and afterwards had to make significant lifestyle changes. This meant exercise, diet and vitamins daily.
-1	I've been pregnant two times so I did a lot of research online and when I went through the second pregnancy I knew most everything from the first.
1	I used to work in surgery. When I'd hear what sorts of cases were coming in, I'd be able to determine all the equipment, instruments, even how long the operation might take. I'd even know what size gloves to put out for the crew!
1	I have had medical issues that i have had to deal with some of these things. I know some basic knowledge but that's about it.
1	I don't know if it shows I have specific knowledge, but I do like to stay informed, and I think people in my friend group think of me as someone with knowledge, so they often come to me for advise. Or maybe it's just that I'm older than most of them.
-1	Well I have a hard time just understanding  this  doctor  stuff  because  you ask a question  and they do not answer  or they do not know
-1	Ijust know I listen and watch other people who have had problems and I learn from that Ihave had so many close calls and learned from them
1	I needed to have surgery for an aortic aneurism and it was explained to me because of its location in my main artery that my chances to survive the operation were 20% - I survived
-1	when I had a chronic illness I had to look up all of the information known about it because most doctors still use methods that were taught 50 years ago, are outdated and do not treat the patient, disease or their pain. 
-1	with my sister who has ms and having a uncle that had this also.  The similarities arfe exactly alike
-1	lowering temperature of young babt fast by using cool compresses repeatedly until danger of seizure passed.
1	My chest hurt and I had chills and then would feel sweaty.  I felt nauseous and my arms were tingling.  As a female, I felt these were possible signs of a heart attack and went to the emergency room
-1	When my mom had a mild stroke I read alot of information about the issue and tried to understand it the best that I could. 
-1	A friend of mine had a pregnancy scare when her menstrual cycle was late; however, she had been experiencing a lot of stress lately, and I told her that stress can often times delay periods. She turned out to not be pregnant even though her period came late.
-1	I know to be careful about blood clots and that I need to go to the doctor if I have a pain deep in my leg and if I feel a bump where the pain is.
1	I think the biggest reason I don't smoke is because of my dad.  He died at 61 with complications from pneumonia.   I remember him running out of breath walking up 5 steps into our house and puffing on his luck strike cigarettes at he same time. 
1	I cant honestly give you a good answer on that one. I am not the best at understanding the jargon used.
1	for four years I did medical work from giving shot to suturing people in the emergency room.I learned extensive medical procedures and that transforms into more than a most peoples knowlege
-1	I have controlled by blood pressure thru by diet and exercise and taking a small dosage of medicnce everyday.
-1	I dont know the answer to these questions wish i was smart i could get all these right i am guessing 80% most every one has cancer anymore
-1	I've worked in two different types of medical offices. Plus, I've earned an AAS in medical technology.
-1	person in our household visited a doctor and the nurse in office did not know how to obtain certain info pertaining to get info from ins comp, subsequently I researched the necessary info and found the correct answers.
1	My little knowledge of health and medical issues come from high school health class and a biology call I took in college.
-1	well i watched alot of videos on youtube about health from a natural herbal doctor so i think that i have a pretty good idea of what good health is
-1	I developed pain in my lower abdomen and with a couple of additional symptoms thought I had a kidney stone.  I did. 
-1	Just the basics of understanding what the doctor says and if not understanding asking very pertinent questions.
-1	My husband had an emergency open heart surgery, he had never been ill a day so this was new.  I was able to be the point person and keep documentation, orders, reports, issues, comments, etc. organized and he is not back to 100%.
-1	I can't think of any. I'm not really an expert on health issues. I am schizophrenic and had a heart condition when I was younger, but I have no idea when medical knowledge ever played a significant role in my life.
-1	I do a lot of research on things that I have been diagnosed with. I have a doctor that is very thorough in checking on my conditions. I do have chronic diseases. 
1	As a late teen, my daughter began experiencing frequent fatigue, joint pain, low grade fevers, and some digestive issues. I knew enough to know that something was wrong, but began to suspect that dietary factors were playing a large role in her problems. I based this on the fact that her conditions would improve over the summer breaks from college, when she was eating a healthier diet (home as opposed to dormitory food).
-1	I have very few experiences with any medical issues. I never had surgery, I never had any bones broken, I go to see doctor for regular annual check up 
-1	I can't think of any experiences in order to give an answer. So this does not pertain to me. Maybe knowing how to fill out the paper work other than that I have no medical problems that I had to deal with.
-1	the only thing i can think of is being given antibiotics to take for something and i understood what was expected of me
-1	I was getting a pap done and was told I had cancer. it was a very difficult time for me to go threw. I was all alone and had Noone to help with the process 
1	Two years after discontinuing some cholesterol medication I had a heart attack and that experience made me more aware of the need to keep my arteries free of plaque especially after viewing the angiogram printout of the blocked artery that cause the MCI in the first place.Fortunately no damage was incurred on the heart muscle.
1	I have researched issues that can occur as a result of gall stones (which I have), and discussed them with my doctor.
1	The other day my dad called me complaining of weakness in one leg. I knew that this could be a sigh of a stroke and convinced him to go the ER instead of leaving work to go home and lay down. I was right: he had a stroke and I possible saved his life with my advice.
-1	I have asthma which it often have me to be rush to the doctor for check up and such and taking medication which I sometimes don't like to take but because of my health I have to take it 
1	A friend was having epigastric pain that I thought was probably a gall bladder attack and it was. I practiced nursing successfully for over twenty years
-1	I recall getting a positive reading from a lab result. I knew it was a false positive because the diagnosis required specific exposures. Since I did not engage in these specific behaviors or in a specific location, I was not worried about the results. Further testing provided a negative result.
-1	I literally lived in a hospital for a full year with a loved one who was mid diagnosed it affected both forever, they had to be right and wouldn't listen
-1	I thought I had breast cancer but I don't and it scared me a lot and to withyour family a lot. More and tolove them a lot more in life
-1	Had surgery on gallbladder was in. A lot of pain but need relief so surgery was my only option I went along with the procedure and 19 years later I feel wonderful 
-1	Having to deal with the Dept of Veterans Affairs for the last 14 years and what they are willing to do and what they won't do for you. They would much rather just give you a pill instead of dealing with problems I have.
-1	I really can't think of issue that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I haven't had any serious health issues
1	kept gaining weight without increasing food intake or changing habits, also was constantly cold especially in the feet and hands as well as losing some hair.  Googled and found that this was a potential thyroid condition.  Made appointment with doctor explained conditions and my findings.  He then did tests and confirmed that had hypothyroid condition.
-1	I work with students with special needs such as feeding tubes, seizures, Autism, etc so each day I have to monitor those needs in order to do what is best for my students. 
1	I know if your blood glucose is 300 or higher, you are a diabetic and your glucose needs to be checked immediately. If you have not been diagnosed yet, the doctor will inform you that you are diabetic. Depending on how high it actually is, you might have to go on insulin right away (type 1 diabetic is insulin dependent) type 2 diabetic, you can control with oral meds, diet, and exercise.
1	My 2 yo child cut his foot on a metal door - I cleaned his cut with water, applied ointment and placed a water-tight bandaid on the cut.
-1	Can't really think of anything unless you count the time my sister was pregnant and had mastitis. Her breasts hurt her so I told her to go and put warm wash clothes on her nipples to open the poors up. She didn't listen to me as usual so she put up with the pain. That's what hard headed little sisters get when they don't listen to people.
1	I don't really have any. I've been very fortunate. I have a MBA and a BS in Computer Science so I have some level of knowledge. 
-1	when i was told that i had fibromyalgia    i made sure i became as educated as possible   i read articles   joined support groups and kept in touch with my doctor
-1	I really dont have any expereinces like this. I trust medicalprofessionals that have knowledge of health and medical issues
-1	There was this time I thought I had somethign that I didnt have but I looked online and I found out that I dsont
-1	My first husband had juvenile diabetes. I became very knowledgeable about all aspects of the disease. In the latter days of his life I administered his insulin and pain meds.
-1	I honestly can just say that when i understand what a doctor says to me about my health or condition is the only knowledge I would have.
-1	I have been through a lot of medical prodedures, x-rays, ultrasounds, etc and this has definitely furthered my knowledge in knowing more about my diagnosis and what comes about with these procedures.
-1	My grandmother has diabetes. I informed her on what diabetes was and I told her how she could get rid of it and the steps to take to get rid of it.   
1	I have had to care for my aunt who was diagnosed with cancer so I have had to learn how to decipher tests and understand the differences between treatment options.
-1	"When my husband was slowly dying of cancer he was on a feeding tube inserted  in his abdomen that regularly malfunctioned.  He was also getting chemo.  At one point the surgeon ""experimented"" with a new type to tube which the hospital did not have a proper connector.  It took 3 days before they found the connector---3 days my husband had no nutrition.  The physician didn't seemed concerned.  My husband died."
1	My daughter recently underwent surgery to correct a potentially serious health issue. I was able to explain to the assisting surgeon what my daughter's condition was, what the surgery entailed, and why it would correct the problem.
-1	I have addressed these in many clinical settings while attending nursing school. Specifically, reguarding education on pregnant women.
-1	when my mother in law had a serious stroke that almost took her life in just minutes she had a blockage
1	I was able to agree with the doctor that although my labor was not progressing, she would start me on pitocin and would turn it off after I reached 5 cm so that my body could take over the cascade of labor. I was able to talk through the risks, understand the goals, etc. 
-1	I try to understand everything the doctor says and ask questions if if I do not understand.  The doctor always take the time needed.
1	I had my wisdom teeth removed and was forced to research providers, practices, procedures and anesthesia used.
-1	My cousin was uninsured and couldn't get to the Dr, he was barreling a series of health concerns, he called me to inform me of the situation, and I told him what I thought was wrong with him. Several days later his condition worsened and he was forced to visit the hospital, when he did he was diagnosed, which East he same diagnosis I gave him.
-1	When I was in high school I took a class called medical careers for 1 year to help me prepare for a future in the medical field.
-1	I don't feel I have a knowledge of health or medical issues. I do read and research online . I have a very basic knowledge 
1	I have anxiety and my daughter also has it so I was able to give her some good tips on how to work through certain issues
-1	I really do not have knowledge of medical issues at all.  I absolutely in no way understand how this question is supppsed to be answered
-1	My doctor did surgery on my feet because my arches fell and I was in severe pain. I knew something was wrong with my feet for years, but I waited to go to doctor. 
-1	I gave cpr to a relative that had a heart attack a number of years ago. Recently I helped my aged mother find a new doctor and reported unusual symptoms whenever they appeared
-1	I was told that I have Diabetes type 2. I was subscribed a medication which helped lower my A1C. After taking this medication for 10 years and learning what to eat, my A1C was at 5.9 and dropping, so my doctor said to stop taking any more medication for my diabetes. I have kept my A1C at 5.6 since I stopped taking the medication.  .
-1	My husband was diagnosed with diabetes after a systemic strep infection destroyed his pancrease.  He was very ill while in the hospital, and I had to retain the inform that was discovered in the hospital and relay the info to him when he was clear headed.  
1	I am a lone non-smoker in a family of smokers; holding steadfast to never smoking has resulted in my current high level of health. Other than that, I am not sure what you're asking. An example would have been helpful.
1	Had a consistent burning in chest area after exercising for 10 minutes. A stress test indicated there might be some blockages which proved to be true. Had open-heart surgery to bypass.
-1	agreed to take a meication that caused a hole in my stomach which caused ulcurs and surgery.Will not be taking that drug again. 
-1	A friend called me one day. She was concerned because. Her husband had a wound that was red and swelling. I told her to take him to the doctor because he had and infection. He may need it drained and take antibiotics. 
-1	I have diabetes and take pills and insulin with each meal. I have to decide how much insulin to give myself, depending on what i am about to eat.
1	When I had to talk to a pregnant friend about options for childbirth and making sure that she is consuming the appropriate amount of water daily.  
1	I woke up and could not hear in my left ear.  After many doctor visits and tests, I was diagnosed with an acoustic neuroma.  There were many options as to how to treat it.  I was able to research and discuss with my doctor to come up with the best option.  9 years later I am doing well.
1	I've never had any issues with understanding medical issues that have happened to myself or others in my family.  My familial health issues have ranged from heart attacks to high blood pressure to glaucoma, to Alzheimer's to cataracts to Parkinson's to various types of cancer.  
-1	I reAlly  don't know much about medical just what I read when I get info from doctor or look it up online
-1	Father has been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and siblings and I have been diagnosed with major depressive disorder, all take medications 
-1	I am 56 years old and have been going to the Dr. for many  years , I have learned a lot about medical issues over the years . I have had  several different family  Dr.s and a few heart Dr.s
1	my mom was diagnosed with osteoarthritis and I took a look at her MRI reading to further explain to her what OA really meant
-1	In my everyday life I experience multiple health issues.Coping with it everyday and maintaining good health is the key.
-1	I have only had a few cats because they have all lived 18 years because I did research when they had a medical problem  and by learning about pets I have also learned about my own medical problems
-1	I can't say I've really had one that I can remember.  Nothing is coming to mind.  I am familiar with my pregnancies, allergies, when somebody needs to make a visit to the doctor.
-1	My son has molluscum and I have looked up information about that on the internet and been able to come up with ways to help fight this condition.
1	received a bad cut on my hand, needed to stop bleeding first, have stitches  put in to keep wound closed, use proper sterial methods to prevent infection, get tetnise shot. 
1	RADIATION AND CHEMOTHERAPY SHOULD NOT BE USED TO TREAT CANCER. PURE OXYGEN THERAPY WILL ELIMINATE CANCER ALONG WITH A DIET THAT CONTAINS VITAMIN B-17.
1	My boyfriend is diabetic and when we go grocery shopping I often help him calculate carbs or calories just like in some of these exercises before we decide whether or not to buy certain things.
1	recent cataract surgery based on opthalmologist's recommendation. would not have done it without her advice. 
-1	I have been through a lot of health issues in my 54 years and I feelI am very knowledgeable about health care concerns and medical issues
-1	I don't know anything about health issues and I think I'm very healthy because I love walking, and doing challenges on my fitbit
-1	old man was not eating and would just look out in space had to have help to bathe and take his med after three days took him to doctor and found out his sugar was high and the old man machine show he had normal sugar 
1	 well for instance today my husband had 9 teeth pulled out and he kept saying I have a blood clot hanging out of my gums. I told him a clot is a mass of blood. That he more likely had a hematoma which I don't think he had either but that would be more likely than a clot if it was hanging down
-1	Not much knowledge so I didy know much. Basic things yes, some of that I didn't know. I'm notvery interested either.
-1	just by talking to my regular physician i feel more aware and willing to perform emergency medical attention to my child. 
-1	had a heart attach in my middle 40's the dr thought it was something else. but with the family history i knew it was my heart
1	I once was certain that I did not have allergies. I went to the doctor to have a scratch test. I proved positive regarding multiple allergies thus I know much less about medical issues than I thought.
1	My mom died of cancer. She ignored bleeding to death two weeks out of every month for two years. She went in for a hysterectomy and the surgeon sewed her back up and sent her home for hospice. Denial is a horrible thing.
1	I have been very fortunate in my adult life and have faced no serious health events. I would say that I got some confirmation of my knowledge when a doctor recommended certain supplements that I was already taking on my own.
-1	there is really nothing in my life that demonstrates this other than the fact that I am able to take care of most of my medical problems on my own.
-1	I try to stay on top of things concerning my health and general well-being. I google a lot about different medical conditions...
-1	he death of my brother from cancer at age 30. Keep a medical book at home.Half of my family (parents.siblings} have passed on so I will fight to stay around a bit longer.
1	Field located in Sacramento, CA. All you can eat BBQ will begin at 6:00pm and the baseball game will begin at 7pm. All employees are welcome to bring you, plus one guest, and your children! 
-1	reading materials and books that I find in the doctors office or the website web.med is good information.
-1	I really haven't had one because I followed the instructions from the doctor and basically that was the jist
-1	Hard to tell, really. We all develop a base of knowledge throughout life that pertains to health and wellbeing but i don't associate such knowledge as being remarkable.
-1	Growing up I've took care of both of my grandmothers who had serious illnesses. I had to learn at an early age what medications were what and how they helped or effected my grandmother's lives. I had to make sure that I was their health advocate in all situations because sometimes doctors don't pay attention to a health issue or what medicine they perscribe
-1	When I was urinating and I felt a burning pain I knew I had a urinery track infection so I went to my doctor he took some test and I was right he prescribed antibiotics and I got better in a week
-1	we had great health insurance until obamacare and now they are trying to fix it and democrats will not let them. we will use our health insurance once it is cost effective for use. no reason to find out you have something wrong with you if you can not affored to be treated for it.
-1	from what I have read on the internet about the BPH that I have and what the Doctor has told me about it, it looks like to me that my complete change of life style is the best way to correct this problem
1	After increasing my exercise regimen, my shoulder started to hurt (like a dull pain and heat) during and after exercising. I took 2 weeks off working out and it got a bit better and then worse again as I started working out again. I understood this meant it was most likely tendonitis so I went to my PCP to get a referral for PT so i can increase the strength of hte muscles around the tendon.
-1	I'm not really sure.My mother and husband have diabetes so I know a little about that.I have high blood pressure as does my husband and mother so i'm a little knowledgeable about that.
1	In my experience, I have lumbar spinal stenosis. I have the bottom four discs herniated. I've had denervation, epidurals and injections to reduce inflammation. None have worked. I need laser surgery to fix it. 
-1	I had to have a quad-drupple bypass that put me in the hospital for four days. If I hadnt gone in when I felt hugh pain in my chest, I could have died
-1	I'm healthy and I have no problem with my health far as I know. There is nothing wrong with me. I have no medical issues
-1	I am a retired Nurse not a mathmatation, so yes I am aware of medical/ health issues and less on grade school word problems.
-1	"Had a blockage of 3 arteries to my aorta, Dr.""s wanted to keep me in hospital for 3 months to do a triple by pass. Knowing my chances were better to continue activities until a spot opened for my surgery, I signed myself out AMA. Went to surgery when a spot opened and have been OK since."
-1	alot of being thirsty and having to go to bathroom,being tiree alot .when to doctor have blood work done and found out i have diebetes.
1	I have injured myself, through walking, hurt my ankle and foot. Had to get home, take ibuprofen for an antiinflammatory, wrap the foot with a wrap, not too tight, but firm, and then seeing as that provides a cloth layer, put ice against it to help any swelling go down.
1	Reading articles online about certain medical issues such as diabetes along with understanding some biological systems such as the immune system.
-1	My husband has been diagnosed with afib, I knew 165 beats per minute was way fast at the same time his blood pressure was low something with his heart was way wrong. Also a younger sister dropping weight struggling to breathe I knew it had to be lung cancer, tried to prepare her for that.
-1	I had elevated serum calcium, elevated PTH levels and low vitamin D levels. My reading suggested primary hyperparathyroidism and I discussed this with my doctor and requested additional testing, which was done and did show that I had had this problem. It was surgically corrected.
1	My husband dies of kidney cancer. I became very familiar with the progression of that type of cancer, the symptoms, the treatments.
1	I had chest pain and numbness in my left arm. Been complaining for years. Workers comp kept telling me it was carpel tunnel. Ended up having bypass surgery at the Mayo Clinic. My personal doctor finally asked at a physical if I was still having chest pain. They FINALLY did a stress test. Two parts of my heart were not lighting up. (not getting blood flow). They did not even bother running the test. Maybe because I was a woman, not terribly old, I don't know why they would not order a stress test. But I am glad I never let them do carpel tunnel surgery.
-1	Diagnosed with breast cancer and understood the concept, treatment options, surgical procedures and the need for an aggressive approach. Understood side effects of chemotherapy after reading information and discussing with my doctor 
-1	I have been visually impaired all my life so I know more than the average person about the eye and how it works.
1	when my mother was fighting cancer going over the weeksly blood results , white blood cell count and so on
-1	Husband was recently ill and hospitalized and I was the one to interact with the doctor/nurses to facilitate his care.
-1	My husband wad letheric and his back hurt and he also had no appetite.  I suggested he be checked for lung cancer.  He was found to have cancer.
-1	I was able to look up my symtoms before I went to the doctor and got the real reason what was wrong with me
-1	I use to be a CNA, so I would take care of elderly patients either in the home setting or in the hospital care setting. So I do have medical training, though Ive been out of it now for about 12 years. 
1	My wife fell during the night and a very large mirror slammed on her head, and pushed her to the floor.  I kept her up for three hours, checking her pupil dilation every half hour.  When she contacted the doctor several days later, she said that we had done everything right.
1	I have worked in a pharmacy for 18 years and have had to deal with numerous health issues at work.  was a regular visitor at emergency rooms with my children and their problems
-1	I have Gerd and as such done extensive research.  Even with that I am continually learning something new.
-1	I have CKD,IBS,RLS,GERD,Sinusitis,Angina,and,I am on dialysis,now.So I see drs at least 1-2 times a month
1	I am taking care of my mother who has a history of blood clots and Hypertension and my husband has diabetes. I have Lupus. 
1	Needed a hip replacement and was told the Dr. would do the Posterior Approach.  Upon doing research, I found that the Anterior Approach was far better for me and my recovery.  So my search began for an Ortho who did the Anterior Approach which was not available in my town/hospital as it requires a special table in the OR. My recovery today is 100% and others I know who had the posterior done are still limited in their activities or still have pain.
1	I have worked as a CNA in the past and have seen many health isssues handled both for the good and bad and been ignore by nurses and even doctors when I mentioned an issue a pstient was having that should have been addresssed before it got worse
1	"My mom asked me about a strange bump, knot on the palm of her hand. The first thing that popped into my head was ""trigger finger."" After a visit to her doctor, he confirmed that's what it appeared to be. "
-1	i was told in my early twenties that i would have diabetes if i did not change my drinking habits.  i changed to diet drinks and i was able yo live another 30 yearsbefore the diabetes came.
-1	medical tests reported uterine cancer, onologist/surgeon explained results and her suggested approach, chose approach, follows directions for prep, and recovery procedures, experience positive outcome and appropriate healing
-1	at one time i had a buzzing in one year.  it was found that i had severe alergies tp walnut and chocolate.  when i stopped eating those items the buzzing stopped.
1	I broke two bones in my hand. The doc showed me the fractures on the x-ray and we watched the healing process over 8 weeks and three additional x-rays.
-1	I would visit my friend who is now deceased and help her with the medications she needed to take.  Even with my own health, I do a lot more research, eat healthier, exercise, and drink plenty of water.
-1	well about a year and a half ago, i had an experience where the ambulance was called i thought i was losing my breath, but after talking to the doctor in the er, and getting the right amount of information i figured out it was probably just a panic attack, and the doctor agreed with me.
1	I have epilepsy. I have to pay attention to my health. I also have family health history { diabetes, melanoma, hart disease } I keep track of my own health and look for advancements in my family history plus possible cures.
-1	I had a tubal pregnancy and I was pretty well-versed on the symptoms and the causes. The information i did find however, was very different then the symptoms I had.
-1	I have experienced not for me but family members health issues. I concentrated on learning as much as possible on those conditions and there treatments
-1	An experience where I demonstrated knowledge of health is when my boyfriend who was 21 at time was diagnosed with diabetes. I was able to help him with insulin and help keep him on a strict diet .
1	So far I have been fortunate to be in good health.  I can't think of any experience I have that meets your criteria. 
-1	I was noticing heavy urination and strong thirst also noticed that vision was blurry and according to my knowledge I knew that these were clear signs of diabetes 
-1	My dad had a mole on his back, it didn't look normal, his doctor said it was fine.  My mom and I insisted it wasn't right.  The doctor biopsied it and it was in fact melanoma.  Had the doctor not listened to us who knows what would have happened.
-1	I was  diagnosed with prediabetes and I know my family has a history of diabetes. I was told that I can get over the pre-diabetes stage by dieting and exercise and that is a known fact because studies have shown this to be true. I did diet and exercise and my blood sugar is in normal range.
1	I used a thermometer to measure my significant other's body temperature. The temperature was 103F. We went to the doctor immediately.
-1	my partner has lung cancer & I went to his appointment with him & talked to his doctor & then explained his diagnosis to him
1	A relative had UTIs that wouldn't go away after her doctor had her on several antibiotics.  I asked if she tried cranberry, and she hadn't, so I did some research online and found a store near her that had a good quality cranberry concentrate, and told her about it.  She tried it, and, along with the last round of antibiotics, she no longer has UTI.
-1	the doctor wanted to put me on a drug and i found out before i took it that it was not compatible at all with another medication and could cause me serious problems
-1	I've been around several people who are diabetic. When my Son in law started acting strange, losing he balance, sluring his words and being dizzy, I told him it was probably his blood sugar was low. Fixed him orange juice with added sugar, fixed him right up
-1	I never had to really experience it. This type of thing never really happened so I don't know what to say. Like I have but I just don't remember so that's why I don't know at all.
-1	I know how much insulin to take if my blood sugar keeps rising.  I check my blood sugar often to know how much to take & how long it takes to work in my body.
-1	I read alot of information on different medical problems that might require That I might ask a doctor about
-1	I have had to take care of my mother who had meboltic syndrome and my son had many health issues growing up 
-1	That I could run 1 mile and a half, without stopping. Yes, I was tired after the run, but I still maintained my health, afterwards.
-1	I have had quite a few surgeries. I have been hospitalized many times for physical or psychological reasons. I have studied to be a surgical tech, thereby learning medical terms or procedures. I am not practicing now.
-1	It is a family culture taking care of our health, so nothing specific happened, when ever I read new information , I try to understand it
1	I have had multiple issues over the years that have required many procedures and medications.  Each time I am referred to a new specialist I am able to discuss my history very well.
1	My grandmother had a heart attack and was passed out.  I called 911 for an ambulance.  I was able to administer CPR and get her conscious again.
-1	I know about knee pain due to having had a broken patela.  I know about diabetes and high blood pressure due to my mother having both issues and having to care for her and help her with her medications.
-1	I don't know what kind of knowledge about my health issues you want to know about if you want to know about health problems what kind
-1	At my age, this could be quite a few things. I have osteoarthritis.  There is no cure and very few treatments. I take an Advil before bed to help with any pain, so I can sleep well. 
1	Had a CAT scan which showed nodules. This could be caused mainly by three things. I now have enough information about nodules
-1	My husband was diagnosed with restless leg syndrome. He said he felt like he was walking on glass. Because I have MS I know what neuropathic pain feels like and I knew that wasn't restless legs. He was then diagnosed with neurosarcoidosis.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was the decision to make the choice not to take an injection.  I have pills I take and I take them on a regular basis and I have no problem taking them.  I eat and exercise properly as well as take medications prescribed by my physician and others if needed.  I feel an injection would hurt me more than help me because if I had bad side effects I would have to wait for the injection to get out of my body.
-1	I had bunion surgery. I  learned what they where going to do and watched videos of the procedure. I knew after the surgery what to expect.
-1	I got conjunctivits from a preschooler that I taught.  I saw the doctor and knew that I would need eye drops to cure the disease.  What i did not know was that I was allergic to the drops that I was prescribed and found out that i was allergic to sulfur.
1	I experienced rolling abdominal pains. By the location and severity i diagnosed appendicitis and was correct. I also experienced severe chest pains and knew i was heart related. I was correct in being diagnosed with arterial blockage
1	I have several medical conditions that have resulted in a hospital stay; and require medication and regular doctor visits. 
1	Not sure what you mean? I used basic skills to determine my answers to simple math questions - I think I got them all correct.
-1	Diagnosed with acid reflux because when I eat bile keeps belching up.  I know that certain foods I eat will cause this to happen more than others so I must every day take my medicine so I don't get open sores in my esophagus.
1	There was a time in my life when I was sick all the time anemia, pain all the time, frequent rounds of bronchitis, digestive problems and allergies.   The doctors just kept giving me more medicine and I kept being sick.   I had 3 children and did not have time for all this.   I started researching and went to natural ways to take care of my body,  diet, exercise, herbal supplements.   I found out then I am responsible for my health.
1	It's think most of my knowledge about  and medical,issues came from dealing with my parents' medical problems.
1	Researching, consulting with my doctor, and making a decision on my treatment for prostate cancer when it was first diagnosed
-1	when i had my first baby, I understood everything that was going to happen in  a normal birth. When I had my 2nd baby, I also understood everything about that birth also. When I had my 3rd, I had to have an emergency C_Section and really didn't understand that, and didn't have time to understand it..Now I do of course...
1	When my nephew was suffering from an eye injury, the er doctor recommended a band aid without running an mri. the mri showed a fracture that the doctor would not have caught without the mri
1	Many years ago, I worked in a hospital for 5 years and took minutes at various medical meetings.  So my understanding of some medical issues were higher that previously.  A friend was diagnosed with breast cancer.  I knew that if it metastasized, it would likely go to the lungs, brain and bones and it did in a very short period of time.
1	I was diagnosed with high cholesterol about 2 years ago.  I since have changed my diet to include more healthy fats like coconut oil and olive oil and avocados.  I have eliminated sugar and reduced saturated fats.  My cholesterol levels dropped, my HDL levels increased dramatically and my triglycerides decreased quite a bit also--improved health!
-1	i no nothing about the medical field  other wise i would be a nurse or a doctor i can not say anything more than  that
-1	One time, I passer out and hit my head while at work. Later on, I was told that I had syncope. I had knowledge of this issue and knew how to effectively treat it to prevent it from happening again. 
1	I know my body very well. I started to have some palpitation that I felt wasn't due to exercise or stress. I let this go on for a few days to see if something was just out of normal. When it didn't stop I went to the ER for a stress test and it turned out I had Afib
1	I was told by my doctor that I have high cholesterol. He told me that I would have to cut out a number of thinks that I normally eat or go on a cholesterol pill. I tried not going on the pill and the next visit my cholesterol was the same. My doctor said that he was on the pill and I needed to go on it, so I went on the cholesterol pill.
-1	I can't think of anything.  I do what I need to and don't dwell on medical issues.  I know what I need to know and I ask questions if unsure.
-1	I can't think of any for myself.My mother had thyroid and breast cancer in her lifetime and I think we all learned some from that.
1	Recently I noticed that my husband was quite a bit thirstier than normal, was urinating more frequently and seemed overall fatigued.  I suggested that since his Mother had been a Type II diabetic he may want to discuss these symptoms with his primary care physician. Sure enough the tests came back, happily, pre-diabetic and he has now made some lifestyle changes that should help lower his risk and potentially keep him off of Metformin, and eventually insulin.
-1	I don't think I had knowledge about health because i've never really been in a health or medical issue whatsoever
1	When I regularly consumed fiber supplement and took calcium supplement to aid in the prevention of colon cancer, which runs on the male side of my family. I believe this helped me avoid such cancer.
-1	i have worked in a medical field for 20 years  I have seen heart attacks I have seen diabetics sugar dropped.  I pretty well know what to do on a lot of stuff.  There are a lot of things to that I would not have a clue in what to do.
-1	Was feeling dizzy when I walk around my house,  went in to have my blood pressure checked to see what was wrong.  Had a helicopter ride to another county to have a pacemaker implanted 
-1	I was told to do research on endometriosis and i was able to do the research and understand to a certain extent the information i read.
-1	My experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my father was dying of cancer.  I realized how precious life really was and that you cannot do anything for them.
-1	Caring for my Mother In Law, Father In Law, and Mother. Overseeing a vast amount of medical procedures and medications for each of them.
-1	I demonstrate knowledge of health with my kids all the time. Especially if they are sick and not feeling well, I generally know what to look for and how to help get them better, and if I can't we go to the doctors.
-1	I worked at a Primary Care Physician's office so I am somewhat familiar with some health and medical issues.
-1	i always looked up the information about health issues in my computer and have always been able to find the information i needed on time. 
1	When my husband was in the hospital and was ordered to a telemetry ward a mistake was made and he was placed on a normal ward. Because I know what the orders where I was able to get him put in the correct unit. 
-1	I have food allergies and i knkw way more than the doctor thay are uneducated and lazy they dont want to take the time to learn
-1	I can not think of an event where I had to display any of the medical information I have obtained. I just try to research when information is presented so I can be knowledgeable the 
-1	per your example, if i had a temp. of 100.4. if i were unable to reduce my temp, be cooling down my body temp, and/ or taking something to reduce it. i would then call the doctor
-1	I lost my hearing due to spinal meningitis at 18 months old. I'm at risk of cardiovascular issues with my grandmother having a stroke and my homozygous MTHFR gene mutation that causes blood clots.
-1	having a grandparent who had diabetes was very hard I had to made sure she gets her insulin shots and make sure eat
-1	The only experience in life that I have had with knowledge of health or medical issues is from going to the doctor myself or with someone else.
1	When my daughter had a brain tumor, I spent days reading medical studies and journals studying on brain tumors and different treatments.  I also got several opinions and did not just take the word of just 1 doctor when it came to her treatment.
-1	I WAS HAVING PROBLEMS CONCENTRATING ON MY JOB AND RELAXING AND CONCENTRATING ON ONE THING AT HOME.  I WENT TO MY DR WITH THE SYMPTOMS AND IT WAS FOUND THAT I HAVE ADHD
1	I sprained by ankle running one day and it was swollen really bad. I went to the emergency room and was able to tell the doctor that it was not broken just swollen and what type of sprain it was.
-1	When I had fluid around my heart I learned a lot about the condition which I knew nothing about. It was a scary thing. 
-1	I have an autoimmune disease. When I meet with a new doctor, I have to explain to them all about my illness, and what I do to stay healthy. This includes diet, exercise, vitamins, and herbal supplementation. 
-1	going to a doctor about a tumor in my uterus and she told me that it would go away so i went to another doctor that did surgery and it turned out to be turning into cancer.
-1	I seem to have read a great many items online about certain health ailments based on the eye conditions I have experienced over the years.
1	My father had 2 major strokes. I managed his health for 3 years. I also have a significant person in my life with type 1 diabetes whom I assist manage the illness
1	I'm actually not really sure I can think of anything at this time. I luckily haven't had many health concerns.
1	Several years ago my boss and I were visiting in his office and he said he had gotten his results from his last blood work. I asked since he was over 55 if they checked his PSA level. He thought for awhile and said well if they did they never gave him any results. I stressed he needed to call and see. Two days later he got a new blood test taken and a week later he was in MD Anderson in Houston for thorough Prostate exam. He is now cancer free for over 6 years.
-1	I dont have any response for this question, i have had very few medical issues. Te most serous thing ive delt with is an ovarian cyst there was nothing to explain
-1	I have no such experience. I was hospitalized last year for a broken toe, and ended up in intensive care for 10 days on life support. I still dont know what exactly happened to me.
-1	When my daughter kept complaining of stomach pain and the er did blood tests and sent her home I looked at her  test results and it looked like she was backed up I called our doctor and got a second opinion
-1	I really don't know what experiences to list.  But each time something has happened, I've asked many questions and tried to get a better understanding and educate myself.
-1	had severe back and hip pain.  turned out i need hip replacement surgery.  i had both hips done.... 20 yrs apart.  no more pain.
-1	We recently had pink eye and I knew before I went to the doctor that it was pink eye and I needed the drops to clear it up.
-1	A few years ago, I could barely walk.  I went to the free clinic in town.  They were unable to help me - I was beyond their scope of help to offer - so they referred me to a local clinic and set me up to get medi-cal, the local medicaid.  I was told that I needed the joints in both hips replace so that process began.  After the second hip replacement, it soon became infected so I was back for another operation.  The surgeon was one of the best and the room I was taken to was more industrial.  The terms and drugs I was given were really something and often confusing.  This really isn't in my wheelhouse!  I've had a few minor things happen since then though most of my issues are resolved now and I can walk again!
-1	I was hit by a drunk driver back in 1989 in which my neck was broken 6 verts 1-6 basically an internal decapitation and as well as a dislocated right hip. 
1	I am knowledgeable about osteopenia and osteoporosis due to having experienced those conditions and receiving effective treatment. When the topic of bone density comes up with other women I feel I can speak quite knowledgeably about it.
-1	I don't have a health or medical issues. I am very happy not to have issues. I go to the doctor when I need to
1	I really don't have a specific experience that I can recall. Either, I know about a medical condition or I don't.
-1	I used to be certified as a CNA and worked in a long care nursing facility. I also had nursing classes at a tech school earlier in life.
1	obviously, as evidenced by the trouble i had with these questions, i am not as knowledgeable (or mathematically adept) as i thought.
-1	 In high school I took a rotation class that goes into hospitals and shadows doctors. We also learn medical terminology an measurement. 
1	I took the risk of not inducing my son. He was actually born on time not late like I was told that I was. I learned that the tests they were wanting to do was likely causing stress on the baby so stopped doing them and the baby came healthy. 
-1	I have no knowledge of it st all I depend on my doctor for all my nimbers I depend on him very much I trust him for everything 
-1	I began to have severe pain in my right knee. I thought maybe I had injured myself in a fall. I did some research online about knee pain and did an assessment of the pain level and found out what causes that kind of pain. I discovered that I might have osteoarthritis. I went to an orthopedist doctor, had some x-rays performed, and found out that I do, indeed, have osteoarthritis. Because I had done my research already, I was able to understand what he was telling me and what needed to be done.
-1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes and I was told I needed to exercise and change my eating habits so I could lower my blood sugar levels. Also that I would have to take medication to help lower it as well.
-1	i read webmd articles, buy books, ask medical people in my family to stay informed...they are a lot of help
1	When I told my doctor I had back problems and he said the MRI told him I was fine.  After I continued to press the issue he sent me for a myelogram and found that I have severe spinal stenosis.  
-1	when I research options for taking or not taking osteoporosis medication/I learned how the medicine acts within the body
-1	For about 40 years I was the care giver for my disabled Mother. She was very dependent on me. I took her to the hospital in July, 2007. I was of the opinion that she had a TIA. She was not the type to stand up for herself so I insisted that she be admitted to the hospital. She passed away 7 days later. I was positive that she needed help. 
-1	21 years ago, my husband was diagnosed with a form of head, neck and throat cancer stage 4. he was given a 5 year prognosis. As his advocate, I researched al phases of his care.
-1	ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO I WAS TOLD I HAD PROSTATE CANCER AFTER HAVING A BLOOD TEST. IHAD TESTS DONE AND ENDED UP HAVING RADIATION TRESTMENTS
1	I worked as a CNA for 15 years, in both nursing facilities and hospitals. One hospital was on a surgical floor setting, one was a small general care facility. 
1	In meeting with a new nutritionist to discuss my macro nutrient intake with consideration given to my dietary restrictions, I was able to discuss the calories needed to maintain my current weight; calculate the calorie deficit needed to lose weight at a rage of 1lb/week; and calculate the calories needed carb, fat, and protein based on my base metabolic rate and level of activity.
-1	My daughter was throwing up and had bad diarrhea and I looked up her symptoms on line and they all said she had the Nora virus when I took her to see the doctor the doctor said it was just a bug and she'd get over it I insisted she be tested for the Nora virus and it turned out that's what she had.
1	When I went to school to be a CMA and graduated with a 4.0 GPA and on the deans list. Also when my pharmacist put the wrong medication in a pill bottle.
-1	i used to be medical asst and worked for a geriareic dr...went to school for lvn and worked ina hospital for a long time
-1	I have been very lucky to have not had any major or really any minor medical issues in my life.  Once I had a kidney infection and it was taken care of well.  I know now how to know if that comes back but so far no issues since.
-1	I do not have any experience with the health field, and no training. also only have knowledge of what I have gone through in my own life.
-1	I had strep throats and I had to go to the doctors. I got there and did a swab to see if I actually had it. The results came back and it turned out I had strep
1	I have had several surgeries -- two knee replacements and rotator cuff repair among them.  I studies the options carefully and asked my doctors many questions before the surgery.  I also was knowledgeable about the rehab involved  because I read up on it prior to surgery and during the months of rehab.
-1	I was told i had high blood pressure and put on meds. I had ran out of meds my my blood pressure was fine. I was then told i did not have it. I mived and the doctors told me it never goes away but did not put me back on anything for it.
-1	There have been loved ones in my life who were smokers, overweight and sedentary.  They suffered major cardiovascular health issues and shortened their lifespan.  I have learned from their poor life choices and am doing much better than they did.
-1	hearing about health issues from other people, in the news and on tv have kept me informed about health issues
1	Recently my toddler was running a fever. I had given him ibuprofen and monitored his fever. His temperature kept going up and once it reached 103 I knew I had to take him to the emergency room. His temperature kept rising and by the time we got to the hospital it was 104. I knew that he needed to be seen by a professional. 
-1	Being in my physical therapy sessions made me feel that I can be proactive in my well being I have learned a lot
-1	i used to work as a credit analyst at a credit life and health insurance company.  I had to look at diagnosis and paid claims if they were not pre-existing illnesses
-1	I had endometriosis.  I researched and found out alot of information that I used. It helped for a while and then I eventually had to go to more extreme measures 
-1	my father was having issues with his heart, something wasn't right and the emergency room just sent his away.  I threw a bloody fit and he was taken to another hospital and a specialist seen him. He was air lifted to U of W to have a emergency specialized surgery that same night 
1	I had chemo for 6 months following cancer surgery and was able to discuss it with my doctors and understand the information so that I never had any questions after discussing it with them.
-1	I was at work and I felt my left side go numb, I got dizzy and could not stand. I went to the hopital and had to have emergency heart surgery. I was mis diagnosed a few times prior to my big heart attack.
1	I was with an older relative They started slurring their words When I asked them to squeeze my fingers they had a hard time They were sweating so I assumed it was a stroke
-1	I had pain in my right kidney i was guessing stones, all tests came back negative. A month later with more pain and a urine test. Results came back with a high blood count and crystals I am currently trying to fix the issues on my own since the dr screwed up and cant see me for 2 months.
1	more than once I have been affected by sudden massive and very complex medical issues that required an entire new vocabulary and ability to comprehend difficult information
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of a medical issue was based on when I had uterine cancer.  A friend called me and told me her symptoms and I told her it sounded like she had the same thing and she did.
-1	I would have to say it was when I was asking questions at the doctor's office. I was asking about anxiety and depression.
-1	An experience in my life that describes my knowledge of health or medical issues may have to be dealing with raising animals and knowing how to treat them or help them heal when they have problems or in extreme circumstances taking them to the vet and listening to what he tells me to do to help them. .. TRANSFERRING THIS KNOWLEDGE TO MY OWN PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES whereby you listen to your doctor's advice.
-1	There is no experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues. I don't even really have any health or medical issues
-1	I was diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome.  I didn't know anything about what caused it.  The dr. didn't tell me anything about diet, so I did my own research and changed my diet, along with his reccommendations to take fiber That was 10 yr. ago and I now have it 95% under control.
1	I was familiar with the medication and side effects prescribed to me. I researched my symptoms and medications prior to my visit.
-1	When I researched symptoms of anemia in high school and months later I was told to be just that. The internet was a great source for me to use at the time, and I also had relatives who were anemic which made the self diagnosis more believable 
1	occasionally give first aid and healing advice and recommend seeing a doctor or specialist if an issue seems severe or persists for an extended period of time (example if someone has sore muscles)
-1	I have had to have a LP. To test my spine fluid. I was u sure of how this was done and or why. I soon learned. 
-1	I do not have an experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have not seen a medical health professional in a number of years.
-1	I had tingling around my face about twenty years ago and knew there was something wrong and thought maybe I had a stroke or pinch nerve issue so I took myself to the hospital emergency room.  It turned out my cervical spine was degenerated and I needed bone fusion surgery.   
-1	When I caught a virus and got really sick my body went through shock but was able come back the next day.
1	I have always been interested in medical information.  I didn't go to school for anything in the medical field, but I feel like I have a pretty good understanding. 
1	My mother in law is in the neuro ICU. I was able to help interpret her continuous EEG to show her increased brain activity when she was spoken to.
-1	the doctor telling me there is nothing wrong with me when I feel really bad and need meds to make me feel better
-1	I dont have a whole lot of knowledge of medici issues or conditoions.. i am still learning i am somewhat of newbie
-1	I come from a medical family. I practice natural medicine. I must know chemistry, biology, symptoms, and treatment. I lived abroad for a decade, and the doctors would wait for me to tell them what I needed. They were next to useless. I once dislocated my shoulder, popped it back into place by myself, bound it up against my chest and took anti inflammatory meds to help with the pain since I am highly allergic to pain meds. When I went to the doctor, they didn't even suggest I go for an x-ray, just said 'well, it looks like you did all the right things'. I now have severe arthritis in my shoulder, and torn ligaments in my rotator cuff. If they had sent me for an x-ray, it could have been fixed at that time.   Now it is too late. 
1	I had to take multiple tests in medical assisting school, had to demonstrate my knowledge during my externship, during my job interview & annually for my evaluations.
-1	When my Mother recently fell in her home and she could not get up, we went there to help her. She told us that she had fallen a few days before that and had hurt her ribs. That fall is what made it hard for her to get up and when ever she moved she screamed with pain. At that point I knew not to move her and to call 911 for help. I was afraid if she had a broken rib that if we moved her we could make it worse or puncture a lung.
-1	The last time I was in the hospital because I had to have more colon removed I developed a bacteria in my incision, the Nurses tried to say that this was not a bacteria, I kept telling them this was not right. But no one would listen. Finally the Doctor came in and examined it and determined that I was right. Because of this I have a huge gaping scar in my stomach that will never close.
-1	studying medical when just out of high school and an interest in staying healthy the rest of my life. knowing how some doctors, hospitals and all of the drug companies lie to sell their wares made me decide I wanted no part of them
1	I have never really demonstrated knowledge on health and medical issues.  These are simple math problems.  You learn these in intro college math.
-1	i could care less about it I never trust drs they just out for money yes god is good i put my trust in the lord can I get an amen
-1	I have no experience in the field of medical issues and these questions are for mathematicians not retired people just trying to get a free gift card by accumulating points
-1	over the last seventeen years of being treated for CHF and Arterial Stenosis , have had many experimental medications and other treatments. so far after being diagnosed with a 3 to 5 year life span with this condition have now survived 17 years
-1	When anyone asks me questions that are  health or medical condition related for example like questions in this survey. 
-1	Don't have a clue as to what to type here!  I have knowledge of my medical issues and my health issues.   I certainly have enough of them.
1	I work in healthcare and I have also had a few medical conditions in the past for which I had to have surgery for. 
-1	I do not have any knowledge of  health that I can think of at the moment. That I can recall.It's been a while
-1	When I was 43 I had a stroke. I knew I was having one because I diagnosed myself using the F.A.S.T. test and I was correct. I got to the hospital on time to save myself with very minimal damage. I had just seen an episode on a TV show where a woman was having a stroke and did the FAST test. If I didnt just see that show, I might not be alive.
1	I smoked cigarettes for a number of years, but quit when my children were young and information about health riskd associated with smoking became available.
-1	when i was told i had high cholesterol went out of my way to learn as much as i could and take medication for it
1	I look all of my meds on WebMD. I have researched all of my ailments.  I know more about my issues than my Drs. do.
1	i have never had an experience in my life that demonstrated knowledge or health or medical issues outside a discussion with my doctor
-1	I don't really have any knowledge of any particular health or medical issues other that what I am told by my doctor.
-1	alot of bad to worse causes of what could harm you and also kill you.from my knowledge of research alot of too much things can hurt you.
1	When my husband had prostate cancer, I real all the literature given to us so I could help him make a responsible, informed decision about what course of treatment to pursue.
-1	I cleaned house for a lady upon arriving she was in bed unconscious and her sleep apnea machine had fallen off I proceeded to put the machine on her until the ambolunce arrived and later they told me I did the right thing helping her from dieing
1	I had to provide the Heimlich maneuver in the school cafeteria for a middle school student who was choking.
-1	I have been diagnosed with itp And had 5 months of treatments and had to solely had to trust and depend on the Drs.
-1	I know everything that a doctor tells me thats going on if i dont understand i asked my doctor or i look it up
1	I went with my father to the VA. I had to help him understand what was required to control his type 2 diabetes. This included diet and taking meds.
-1	A young man had a heart attack While waiting for the paramedics I performed cpr on him to keep him alive until they arrived.
-1	I have no experience. I do a lot of reading. Procedures my parents have had or have gone through helped.
-1	My dad had a kidney stone and wouldn't go to the doctor. My ex had just gone though it a few months before. My dad has ONE kidney. A week after I told him about the kidney stone he started to go into kidney failure.  He's ok now but the nurses and mom had me stay with him at the hospital. I did more for him than the nurses did. 
-1	l have MS it hard tolive with it has rock me to no tnd. l can not walk l ride in a wheelchair l do not likt it
1	I think that I do know a lot more then the average person about many medical related things. I'm not saying I'm a doctor but I am saying I'm very smart 
-1	Growing up frequently sick. Always trying to be in the best condition to prevent sickness and grow up healthy.
-1	Wel) people that i know get sick or i get sick i try to get to know as much as i can about the illness or condition
-1	A close friend lasr year started describing the various sytems she was having, I strongly urged her to go to the doctor so that specific tests could be done, unfortunately she didnt until it was too late and nothing could be done
1	I once saved someone by doing the Heimlich maneuver. My health and medical knowledge extend to basic first aid. 
-1	after getting so many shots i am able to tell the best time and place to get blood from me so i know when and where to stick me 
1	 I've not faced any of these examples. So far so good. All I have had to do so far is read the documents and sign. I did, however, used to be employed as a Medical Receptionist at a plasma donation center. I was in charge of taking blood tests using a hematocrit that, after spun, revealed plasma protein levels. I payed the customers. I took their pulses and blood pressures. I read a series of questions that aided in determining whether or not a donor was suitable. 
-1	I really haven't been in a situation like that. I know how to check for broken bones & know CPR. I wish to learn more about additional medical issues in the future.
-1	When my daughter was 7 she was hospitalized. The hospital refused to discharge her until she drank at least 16 oz of fluids on her own. I requested that they remove the IV in order for her to actually be thirsty enough to want to drink
1	Wow this is a tough one....i m not sure...I was able to do great wound care when I had a Hugh gapping whole in my left leg after a bad break and two surgeries
-1	When I visited a urgent care one time, on a major hand eczema breakout, they tried to give me the wrong cream medication. I always carrying information on medication that I take, so I had to correct them on that issue and was giving the right cream.
-1	I had passed out from a infection in my stomach. My intestines was swollen and to find out I also had a blood clot in my vien on my overys 
-1	I have experience a lot in my life, I am going to tell you little about my experience. In my early stage I was diagnosed with thyroid disease which I am managing. I go for blood work almost every months which now make me to understand about blood work 
-1	I hav eno medical knowledge it has tio be spelled out to me on what and when to take meds on a dailty bases
-1	I don't have any such experience to relate to that i can remember. In general I have a good knowledge of this subject
-1	i  dont really  have  an  experience i  can  share in  depth...i   am  unsure  how to  answer this  question
-1	herniated a disc in my lower back about 25 years ago and was able to find and understand the symptoms and treatments for my ailment
1	My sister had an unexplained persistent backache. She began to lose weight and she became jaundiced. I suggested she go to a doctor, jaundice and weight loss concerned me. Turns out she had pancreatic cancer, like our mom before us. (Unlike mom, she survived the treatment.) I am now hyper alert for signs that might indicate cancer. 
1	!i took a medical terminology class and knew most of the words that we learned in the class before I was even taught them. I am also able to understand a lot of terminology that's hearon medical dramas and can tell if the information is accurate or not. 
-1	My daughter had cancer. My mother and grandmother along with an aunt have/had diabetes for as long as I can recall. 
-1	I don't really remember any time at all.  I can only answer when I have a doctor appointment and what we are talking about at the time and if I understand it.
-1	Two years ago after getting my blood work my letter in the mail showed my cholesterol was extremely high & my blood glucose was elevated so I changed my diet & started exercising & 6 months later I got my cholesterol down half of what it was & my blood glucose was normal
-1	After being diagnosed with a medical issue and having to take a certain amount of medication so many times per day. 
-1	I was never good at math that is why I gave you zero's. I suppose if I wanted to learn more math I would go back to school. I do have 3 associates degrees, but not in math. Just business math, so I try not to give math too much attention. I was 52 out of 750 high school students so I am not completely stupid. I just hate math and will never like it. Hope I didn't mess up your survey too much.
-1	Only during medical class learning abbreviations that I recall and understanding their meaning. And taking a cpr class I learned a few things
-1	Having a to take a test for breast cancer and having to wait for the results to come back is something I would never want to experience again but now knowing I don't have it is good
-1	i have never actually had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of any health or medical issue.  
-1	My father had cancer several years ago and was treated with an experimental drug at that time.  He had a 5% survival rate with the treatment and 0% without it.  He did not survive.
-1	My past operations and hospital tests and in-patient as well as out-patient experiences and the knowledge I obtained from all of these.
1	I have hypothyroidism. I had a goiter when I was a child and was treated. I did not understand then what that treatment was but thinking it over and over and researching it I know more. After I miscarried I became hypothyroid and started medication. I now know I'd been hypothyroid since my treatment as a child. My medication is adjusted annually.
-1	I would say one of the things that gave me knowledge of some health or medical issues. Is my consistant health issues such as being diagnosed with Diabetes, High blood pressure, High cholesterol and most recently pulmonary hypertension of the lungs. Being in the hospital for 10 days and having test after test done and numerous doctors coming in to advise me of my medical situation and what needs to be done to improved my health. Along with follow up appointments to my primary physician and other specialist.
1	I can't think of one at the present because I am rarely sick therefore I can not remember any experience in my life right off.
1	I gave a friend medical advice when they had abdominal pain that they were ignoring. I told them to go to the ER, it turns out they had appendicitis. 
1	I have worked in long term health care for many years.  I have been able to point out symptoms that have led to treatments that have saved lives.
-1	My mom is a register nurse and i worked at a home health care agency I took a and p courses so I have some type of knowledge
-1	I had a major surgery last year and it made me really invest in my health and medical care, studying more, asking more questions, etc
-1	My husband had pancreatis with complications requiring 10 hospitalizations totaling 65 days.  I learned all I could about the condition and was able to converse with doctors and nurses and be my husband's advocate. Also I managed his nasal tube feeding at home for about 45 days.
-1	May be I don't have but I have seen few patients as like this medical problems  in the past two years ago 
-1	i'm not the smartest person in the world but I know the basics of medical issues pertaining to myself
-1	Was a shipboard medic during two tours in Nam.  While helping to provide day to day care to the ships crew (we had up to 4 doctor's aboard when we took wounded from the field on three occasions) while most of my training was on the job (I first went aboard to be assigned to the black gang, transfered to medical when we first left states for Western Pacific) learned skills the job.  Decided to go other directions when left service, but pretty well understand most medical termonoligy and procedures.. 
-1	An experience in life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I had my colectomy in 2003. I knew that I knew special anesthesia for the operation because of an allergy I have to certain anesthetics. After the colectomy was performed, I knew that I had ulcerative colitis not Crohn's as was initially diagnosed because UC runs in my family.
-1	In my early 20s I had an auto accident and received a concussion through to the impact of the car and was hospitalized and require an MRI to make sure that I didn't have any internal injuries
-1	My personal health situation,which is very good.I exercise regularly,eat right, and am abstinent.I live a very disciplined lifestyle. I have had no personal medical experiences. I learn well from the experiences of others.
1	When my father was sick he spent much time in the hospital and I had to learn what the doctors and nurses were talking about so I could talk to the professionals with some sort of knowledge. I could understand what they were talking about. 
1	When I was diagnosed with Paget's disease of the vulva, I understood the surgical procedure that the doctor would use to remove the tissue which was affected.  When he told me about a cream that had just become available, and that it was a chemo drug that had been helpful in controlling symptoms of my condition, I opted to try it.  My doctor fully explained the side effects, and how to deal with them.  I just call him if the meds start to bother me, and he changes the frequency of use of the cream.  I have gone from having surgery every 1 to 2 years, to having NO surgeries for the past 4 years.  
-1	Having been in the military as a medic/nurse/pharmacy tech my background and knowledge is vital to my health and some of the answers might be wrong but i'm 65 and it's been awhile
-1	i have had my gallbladder removed, my child has had their tonsils and aednoids removed. i have had 3 csections, my mom has had a hysterectomy. i learned about these thing thru the doctors
1	I can't really think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I guess this is one of those times when you don't know what to say.
-1	i had an  friend who was hot and feverish that insisted he stay at work that he just had a sore throat, start of a cold. i knew he had more than a cold and finally, i insisted that he take his temperature. it was 100.5. took him immediately to ER. he was admitted into the hospital with severe strep throat. after a nite, he was released and was confined to home for over a week to get well. 
-1	I do not have any medical knowledge or experience in the field of caring for people thus go to a regulated practice 
-1	I'm quite knowledgeable but not that great with math. I know a lot about healthy eating and exercising and how to watch for certain symptoms I get my flu shot plenty of rest and so on. This survey definitely not worth the time I spend on it
-1	My asthma I have to improve in it as well as my weight to get improve my health I have been trying to eat right 
1	I have a hearing loss which due to the type being a inner ear vs bone conduction I have been able to find a surgeon who can replace the stapes to help improve my hearing
1	I'm not sure that I have anything in my life that would demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. I mean, I see a doctor when I should, and I exercise and try to eat right, but other than that, I'm not sure what you're asking.
1	I was diagnosed with high cholesterol and high triglycerides. My cholesterol and triglyceride levels were very high. I went to a specialist who recommended a statin to control the cholesterol and fish oil to control the triglycerides.
1	I have extensive knowledge relating to perinatal occurrences, such as the possible long-terms effects of anoxia.
-1	My father had a stroke on the street in Springfield.  I was able to notice the symptoms right away and get him to the hospital very quickly.  The staff treated him immediately with appropriate drugs to minimize the effects of the stroke and he lived for many years without too much difficulty.
-1	I was told I needed a breast biopsy because of an abnormal mammogram, but I was not too worried because I know there are a lot of false findings. As I suspected the biopsy came back negative, but was told I have very dense breast tissue so I know that it is imperative that I regularly have a mammogram.
-1	any questions I have about health or medicine can usually be found online at numerous blogs or sites.
-1	On several occasions, to mention some common diseases of my children such as colds, flu, malaise, routine evaluations, and also with relatives
1	I am able to blog responsibly on PLM and Between Us sites about Fibromyalgia after living with it for 7 years.I
-1	i was a full time caretaker of my husband who had been sick our whole marriage nad he passe away in oct 16
-1	My Mom was had a lot of illnesses, and I took care of her.  I learned a lot by doing that.  She had heart issues, and lung cancer.
-1	My experience dealing diagnosed with diabetes has truly knowledge me take special precautions on my daily food intake
-1	So there's my latest experience, my mom's,my baby brother's,  my younger brother's, and now my cousin's.
1	My doctor diagnosed me with Rheumatoid Arthritis with possible overlaping systemic Lupus and I should immediately start taking biologic treatments.  He did not fully explain all the potential side effects of the medications.  I researched the medications and found many of the side effects were more dibilitating than the disease.
-1	I have nothing to really say about this so I am just kind of without words at this moment and about this Subject
-1	Being diagnosed with diabetes when I was 8 years old. Growing up and going through many stages of life with diabetes has deepened my knowledge
1	My doctor has told me many times that I  live a healthy lifestyle He says I know what to eat and how important exercise is as well as a positive mental attitude
-1	I was told that I had diabetes with high blood pressure. I knew I had to get some weight off and take my medication as directed. I also had to learn how to keep my stress level down. I also needed to exercise more.
-1	When I had an broken ankle. I understood what the doctor was telling me about the operation that he was going to perform in my ankle. 
1	I am always trying to gain new knowledge.  Not just health issues.  I try to learn something new every day/ 
-1	in march or april 2016 i was hospitalised i already knew i had congestive heart disease in the er  my sodium magnesium was very low then my heart rate was slow the next month i had to have a pacemaker in less than 30 minutes my heart rate went from 50 to 30
1	I don't know if I can recall anything that would meet the qualifications for this question. I don't know what else you want me to type here.
-1	I don't know if there's a particular experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues... I know an average amount I think, but I don't know if I've ever put that knowledge to use
-1	im very interested in the medical field im constaley reading up on the internet and books to learn more and more about peoples health
-1	I've never been able to really understand problems like these,they always had to explain things in more simple terms
-1	I don't know anything about it I go school and home and church my family don't tell me anything not even about period and they won't tell me about sex but my teacher told the class about sex and help diseases that will happen if you have unprotected sex 
-1	He demonstrate my knowledge in small villages, family environment and others in other than business trip
-1	When my daughter got sick I didn't run to the doctors Every time they got a cold or had a small fever I took a day to asses the problem to make sure it wa9somrhing that simple rest and hydration couldn't fix first
-1	The only reason I have a basic knowledge is because many years ago I used to work as a medical secretary and I learned alot on the field. 
-1	I have personally never had health issues but I was able to help explain to my grandfather what was going on when the Doctor told him that he had lung cancer.
1	Not applicable. I have never really experienced this situation before. I am ready though to become more knowledgable of the various health conditions so that I will always be in the know and ask questions when needed.
1	recently did a test for colon cancer and they told me they found something and it could be cancer with a percentage being mistaken. It turns out it wasn't cancer
1	My husband is terminally ill with multiple myleoma, my father had pancreatic cancer, my husband has diabetes, has had three bi-passes and one valve replaced in his heart, gout and my mother had liver cancer and my father also had hodgskins disease.  My mother worked as a nurses' aid in a hospital for twenty years and I basically grew up there.
-1	I worked in a doctors office assisting the doctor with procedures and doing medical charts. I had to know medical terminologies
-1	I weaned my father in law off of a long list of drugs which were not needed. I also was able to get off of 2 high blood pressure drugs for myself.
-1	I felt a lot of pain in my lower part of my body which my doctor told me to not eat so much meat and now I eat more veggies than meat
-1	I don't really have any other than when there is an emergency, stay calm and call the paramedics. Other than that I don't really know much.
-1	I can't think of a particular instance where my life experience has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	During my last hospitalization, several times I asked relevant questions despite my reduced capacity. On at least one occasion, the nurse was surprised and didn't know the answer and had to ask the doctor.
-1	I am finding it hard to recall, other than following my doctor's instructions on how to treat my conditions, i.e, taking my medications properly.
-1	I found out my son has hemophilia and I had to learn all about that . And I'm still learning about all the different things that come with it I was a mess in that hospital room when they told me that news . But now I teach people about hemophilia and all that comes with it I teach more of the youth though just to get them educated on it .
-1	When I went for my yearly mammogram I was told I had a spot on my left breast and they had to do a biopsy so they did and it came back begin thank god
-1	I've been dieting and trying to eat healthy to lose weight and promote my health. I read packages to make sure I am meeting my requirements for vitamins while staying under for sodium.
-1	Prescription drugs with multiple serious side effects for someone with my illness, age, and weight. Multiple drugs working together and against each other. 
-1	I deal with bronchitis on a daily basis and take breathing treatments.. I learned that if one is missed it makes it harder to get your breathing back to where it is suppose to be.
-1	My daughter is pregnant and her visits to the doctor demonstrate my knowledge.  I have to explain to her what the doctor is talking about and ask questions whenever she doesn't.
-1	My son had a potrution on the side of his neck that did not seem like a swollen lymph node. I assumed it was a thyroid problem and unfortunately turned out to be correct. He has papillary cancer of both nodes.
1	i work as a clinical research associate on phase 1 oncology clinical trials so i have knowledge of health and medical issues as phase 1 deals with a lot of side effects and safety of the patients
-1	The day my daughter broke both bones in her right wrist clean through. She was in a cast for weeks. Dealt with a lot of doctors then
-1	My grandmothers and mother have both been in the hospital and I have had to interpret the medical papers and procedures they are talking about.
1	I experienced a very rapid heartbeat (155 bpm) and knew I was experiencing some type of arrythmia as my husband has suffered from heart issues from many years.  I immediately went to the ER and learned I was having an atrial flutter episode.  After treatment with a couple of medications, my heart converted to normal sinus rythm
1	I have worked in the medical field most of my working life. I also have training in various fields. 
1	I am a long-term diabetic who, unfortunately, has experienced many of the side-effects associated with this disease for many years. It just makes sense to me , that the more knowledge and information one has about their maladies and the treatments available for them, the more equipped they are to understand and follow the advice of their primary care physician.
-1	When my gallbladder went bad, I knew a few months before the doctors figured out that it was my gallbladder. 
-1	I feel off a roof an shattered both of my heels. The Dr told me he would have to go in surgically and put my heels back together with screws and plates. As we tyalked about my condition he was surprised at my knowledge of the human anatima
-1	When a neurologist advised me to take steroids.  I wouldn't because it would be bad for my osteoporosis.
-1	I had a skin cancer lesion on my face and I had it removed. I took very good care of the wound and followed the doctors orders explicitly
-1	Im not really sure.i know how to monitor blood pressure takecmy weight.i know how to take my temperature
1	I worked in a hospital during college.  Past that, my knowledge is derived from school curriculum and my personal health experience.
-1	I am confident I know enough about the conditions that I have to be able to recognnize them in other people.
-1	I  don't have any experiences that I would like to share with anyone there's is nothing I can think of
-1	I knew something was wrong with me so i researched my symptoms and self diagnosed endometriosis and i do indeed have it
1	When I was pregnant with my first born I was told I had a negative Rh blood type and I would need a certain type of medication through shot to ensure hay my next born wouldn't die in the fetus
-1	Husband has a stroke and due to another person in the family having the same thing happen I was able to recognize some of the symptoms and prevent it from being much worse.  
-1	None?I am tried of these questions.This is all I am writing . I am done.Done, done,done,done.Already done.
-1	It would pertain to a time with my son since as a mother, you just seem to sense or know certain things.  Anytime, my son has a headache, I know there is something up and I need to delve deeper to find out what that something is.
1	none that i can think of, guess i have led a sheltered life or just kept myself out of the medical system as much as i possibly could though i have given birth to two boys years ago and that was something that worked itself out as expected
-1	I look up the medical issues to gain wisdom and knowledge about the medical issues that I am interested in at this time in my life
-1	i went to school for phlebotomy, and learned quit a few things about the human body and what some medical issues are.
1	I do not have any experiences in my life that demonstrates any knowledge of health or medical issues.  Oh wait, I take that back.  A friend of mine had medical issues.  He went to many doctors that could or did not know what was wrong with him.  They basically sent him from doctor to doctor, test to test, and they were never able to give him a direct answer to what his problem was. When he ended up in the hospital, the doctors in the emergency room said that there was nothing wrong with him and sent him home.  The next time when the ambulance took him, the staff at the hospital was again going to send him back home, again stating that there was nothing wrong with him. The man had cancer and died a few days later.
1	Mammogram's yearly make me feel satisfied, that I have healthy breasts. Also giving myself frequent breast exams weekly, or when ever I shower, gives me the satisfaction that I am doing my own part to follow up should I find any lumps.
1	My son was born with tourette syndrome. He has been to many physicians. I have read extensively on this condition. believe me, I know how to read and understand.
-1	There has not been anything in my life but knee pain.  It has almost been a year and I still have no idea what is wrong with my knee.  I might have a year or I might have arthritis, but it would be nice to know.
-1	Personal and Family experience. My dad is diabetic, mom has lupus, ex boyfriend had hatshimotos. Last year I had unexplained illness. I know my way around mayo clinic...
1	"I knew when I had to go in for gallbladder removal. I held off as long as possible, but knew when to go in. I also knew that my condition was not ""just gas"" as I had been previously told."
1	When my daughter busted her chin open on our tile floor and I had to patch her up and slow the bleeding, then rush her to the first emergency room that had lost power. Then proceed to the second emergency room that could help clean and stitch her chin.
-1	I have been out to eat and have watched someone administer the Heimleich procedure to someone choking.
-1	About my weight and weight loss. I know how many carbs and calories I need a day to be healthy and loss weight. 
-1	My own medical issues and the medical issues of my family members. Both my grand parents died of cancer
1	My girlfriend frequently goes to the hospital for asthma related illnesses. I need to understand the issues, and be able to respond to take care of her while en route to the hospital.
1	I had to help my oldest son while he was having a grand mall seizure and I was told how to  place him and not to stick anything in his mouth because he could possibly choke and I was told the signs to watch for in case he did not show signs of the seizure stopping within a reasonable amount of time. I was the only one in my family who could stay calm enough to help my son during his seizures.
1	I fainted after getting a biopsy years ago. When the biopsy came back with the possibility of cancer, I decided that when I got the minor surgery required, I would be put to sleep. I also looked into the various options of surgery for my procedure on my own. 
1	I don't really believe that I have knowledge on health or medical issues, I leave that up to the professionals.
-1	my daughter has allergies so I know how to read labels and to handle a reaction if she has one including admistering an injector
-1	Had blood in my stool. Made appointment with my doctor to schedule colonoscopy. Phillips were defected and remove. My current schedule for colonoscopies is every 5 years.
-1	i have overal good health and am keeping my health in good shape by eat good food habits and doing exercise regularly
-1	Was exhibiting upper back pain and indigestion for over a year with no diagnosis forthcoming from my Dr. I kept asking about possible gall bladder disease but he said I was too young(21) Ultimately I I became I'll enough to jaundice and end up in the ER where they tested me and I proved positive for gall stones and gall bladder disease
-1	I have never demonstrated my medical knowledge. I haven't had a reason to do so in my lifetime .it's not an issue for me
-1	one time i had depression and i went to a few doctors and they tld me it wasnt nothing .but i went and got a another opinion on it .and they really helped me and the other doctor was really good and nice to me .
-1	had back surgery  high blood pressure    high cholesterol  pnumonia  have sleep problems  at night  i have apnea
-1	Everything you eat need to have a balance.   Excercise is very important.  Avoid alcohol and smoking.
-1	I felt severe chest pain and knew enough about chest pain so I did not just ignore it and called for an ambulance to take me to the hospital before very much damage was done to my heart because I was having a heart attack.
1	I was formally taking a prescription medication for controlling fluid build up in my heart.It made me cough very hard often.I contacted my heart doctor ,explained the symptoms and he changed the medicine.
-1	I once felt a lump in my right breast area then it was just of my weight gain. were the doctor told me to just keep a eye upon on it . I was kind of concern at first but everything is all good.
-1	The sociology of health and illness, alternatively the sociology of health and wellness, examines the interaction between society and health. The objective of this topic is to see how social life affects morbidity and mortality rate, and vice versa. This aspect of sociology differs from medical sociology in that this branch
-1	Not a lot of experience at all,  just go to my VA visits & listen to my doctor or nurse.. I've had a double hernia & went to my checkups and listened to my doctor or nurse.
-1	when i thought i found a lump i was pretty sure i had cancer i was self diagonsing and in a state of panic kept postponing going to doctor but finally did
1	I was at a store and a girl was having what looked to me like an asthma attack. No one knew what to do so I asked if anyone had an inhaler no one did so said call an ambulance knowing that it wouldn't resolve on its own
-1	I can not give you a clue . im not that good with health care . i do not know where to being on that . because im not a doctor
-1	Well I knwk a lot of side effects so soemtimws I can tell waste hapeppening yo me .bitch don't tell me how much to write are you the damn boss of me loser
1	I worked as a medical claims adjuster for a self insured group for 8 years and I also worked in a medical clinic submitting claims to various insurance for another 8 years.
-1	when I had knee surgery, I studied up on what they were going to do and what medicine they were using to get me thru this
-1	i have had multiple surgeries and shared that with others to inform them that care is needed in all cases, don't avoid checkups and take all your medicine.
-1	I woke up one morning couldn't catch my breath it was scary I had to keep myself calm I knew something was wrong turns out u had asthma
-1	I'm sorry I can't recall such a issue I know my husband has high cholesterol  I have some knowledge about changing his diet
-1	I was diagnosed with colitis 20 years ago. I spent twenty days in the hospital and almost lost part of my intestine. I got a first-hand look at the ravages of c.difficile infection and survived.
-1	I don't have any one experience in my life that can show my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have had two hernia repair surgeries, emergency galbladder surgery and burned in a house fire years ago.
-1	I know how to read the machine that keep track of your blood pressure, heart beat and oxygen.. The doctor showed us how when my Dad was sick and dying.
-1	Sending my deceased spouse to the doctor when he was having light headedness & almost fell due to blood pressure medication he was on was to strong after he had lost weight.
-1	I had to have a hysterectomy because I had fibroids on my uterus snd my doctoe did a good job other than th3 scars on my stomach 
1	I have been living with health issues for many years now, so I have become a bit of an unofficial expert on my condition and am often a source of information for others.
-1	In high school we needed to plan a diet which meant recording everything we ate and how much calories we burned. By doing so we were able to see how much caloric intake we actually accumulated according to a 2,000 calorie diet. Based upon that we could calculate how much weight could be lost as a result of dieting.
-1	When i had a skin irritation that wouldnt ho away.  I tried everything and knew it was probably exzema
-1	Had family member who had to get fibroids removed and a family member  who needed a knee replacement  plus a friend  who had diabetes and had to get a toe removed.
1	i cannot think of any except once while at the doctors the nurse asked if I had medicaltraining because I sounded so knowledgeable.
1	I think just having basic knowledge in life is helpful.  I have not had any serious medical conditions so that I am not sure how to respond.  I can read, write and do math.  
-1	Thankfully I have not had any experience for me to know this information.  I hope I never do.  If so, I would do some research and consult a doctor.
1	I grew up in a drugstore, daughter of a pharmacist, and a sister who is a pediatrician.  I worked at the drugstore since I was young, and learned a lot about prescriptions.
-1	i did research on ovarian cysts. i had the knowledge of symptoms and diet to relieve pain so when i spoke to the my doctor i was familiar with everything
-1	i understand all the issues i have with my health and what can or can not be done to correct the problem. i am presently going thru tests to see what is wrong with my bowels. don't like the prep but has to be done since they found polyps that were benign but want to make sure they got everything. they are also taking another test going thru my throat to see what is wrong with my upper intestines. 
1	"My mother started to have shortness of breath, and I could hear ""rales"" in her breathing.  I thought it was pulmonary edema.  It was congestive heart failure but I was close"
-1	I read do research ask questions of all my medical professional I am not afraid to ask question to ask for more than I can give, is to ask me to give false information
-1	my life has been funny because now i cannot eat icecream or drink milk no raw fruits and no raw vegitbles
-1	I have had kidney stones on the worst level . I know that drinking lots of fluids and not drinking alcohol helps
-1	I have had children and over the years I try to keep up with health care all thou I stinck at math so I hate when people talk in percent
-1	When I worked in a nursing facility and had to get vital signs of several residents each day.  Some of which needed blood pressure medicine if their pressure was too high. 
-1	One day my husband kept saying he had a terrible crick in his neck. He said it was on his right and it really hurt. He sat in his chair for about 2 hours. I was urging him to go to the er as I thought he was having a heart attack as I knew a man with the same symptoms and he went to the doctor. His was a heart attack. My husband refused. Next doctor visit they ran an ekg. It showed he had indeed had a heart attack. He ended up having a 4 by pass.  I should have made him go to er because heart surgeon said he was a ticking time bomb.
-1	In my life time I have not really had any health issues that call for me to have a knowledge of health or medical issues other than having children.  When I was at a very young age I had a tumor on my big toe but my mom handled hat because I was a teenager and definitely had no knowledge of any health or medical issues except my toe at that time would not heal and that I had to go to the doctor to find out what was wrong and that was when we found I had a tumor.  It was operated on in the doctor's office , tumor and the toe nail was removed and the toe scraped to the bone.  It was not malignant toe nail grew back where I was not suppose to have one and I am fully grown and have not had any further trouble.
-1	I was my mother's caregiver for 10 months when she was suffering from severe osteoporosis and a pulmomary embolism.  I cared for my brother when he was dying of liver cancer; I took care of my sister-in-law when she had cancer of the pancreas and now I am taking care of my husband who was diagnosed with Alzheimer's.  I think I am more than knowledgeable of health and medical issues.
-1	I had to have surgery on my foot. I broke it in 4 places and the metatarsal was left broken and untreated for 4 years. I had to have a fusion surgery to correct and remove arthritic tissue etc.
-1	I started taking first aid classes at age 9 when my father was chief of a volunteer fire department. I took same classes as the firemen for 7 years. 
-1	My experience is I have cancer I've gone through a lot of medicines I've gone through a lot of treatments including radiation and chemotherapy I think I'm experienced as matter fact I know I'm experienced
1	When I was told I had Type 2 Diabetes, I have learned quite a bit about my condition and how to control it over the years.
-1	i really dont have much experience in life demonstrationbecause i dont understand most of it also i was told a couple of times they found stuff when doing a mammogram and it turned out nothing was there
-1	an experience i had was when my stepdad had a siezure, it was really scary but i had to try my best and be calm and help my mom
-1	When I had cervical spine surgery. The surgeon explained everything in full so I naturally had a little fear as it was my spinal cord they were  operating on
-1	I do not think I ever had such an experience worthy for discussion that I can think of.  Nothing comes to mind.
-1	I have migraines and it's hard to get a relief for them and I've been through doctor to doctor and i can't find relief for them at all. 
-1	it is a high level experience, i have a good knowledge, i know who is the best doctor to see when i am sick.
-1	when i was diagnosed with a sexually transmitted decease that was on the verge of being a life and death situation and i did;nt know how serious it was until i was told by the doctor.
-1	I have high cholesterol and high triglycerides. After meeting with my doctor quarterly and exercising, as well as eating better, I am able to lower these levels.
-1	I have not had any experience for myself, but I have helped my husband who has a lot of medical issues. 
1	I am a little bit overweight.  I am aware of the weight loss benefits of a low carbohydrate diet.  I am easily able to keep track of what carbohydrate levels are in most foods, and have ,in the past, been able to lose weight when I want to.  I assume this is considered a health issue. 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health is when I had nomophobia i had to use my knowledge of health to get better and not to get sick again
-1	surely not this survey. i couldnt figure out half of this with a calculator. my boyfriend was an emt, i just ask him or google half of it.
1	Doctors couldn't diagnose me in Las Vegas, NV. I had to go to Birmingham, Al to get the right diagnoses. This goes to show that if at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
-1	I knew when my wife was suffering from what had not yet been diagnosed as shingles because of the symptoms she presented.
1	My sister's daughter was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes and my father had also suffered from this.  I was familiar with the treatments and lifestyle changes involved.
-1	It was very hard needed help with some people next to me and some didn't make sense.i don't want to be a doctor
-1	I'm not in school anymore    NO MATH QUESTONS! Jeesus, I hate this survey    you want long answers that can be answered with a short one and ask math questions   this sucks
1	My mother diagnosed with Hepatitis. She believes she contracted this before I was born through a blood transfusion.  I understood that this disease could be passed from child to mother during pregnancy, but the likelihood was low.  
-1	After carefully study and researching my health issues and seeking consultation. A physician preferred me to have a life threatening surgery than to balance my body specifically and naturally based on my ailments and chemistry. I was convinced  that i would not be having surgery and i have been fine ever since. I have been taking the right precautions. 
-1	I took care of my mom for 10 yrs. She'd had a stroke, diabetes, and later was a double amputee. I did whatever I was told to do by the doctor. I called if I had any questions. I gained some knowledge, but it's mostly forgotten. It's been 13 yrs ago.
-1	I have degenerate disk disease that in the future I wil need a back fusion with hardware, I have been a candidate for awhile
1	The only experience I had in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was helping a friend research the different methods of birth control.  I knew a lot about each method and its side effects and my own experience with the method I was currently taking at the time.
-1	I can't think of any instance at this time. I am not by any means experienced in these matters. I have taken a few biology classes on subjects of this matter but I have never been put in a situation where I had to use that knowledge to resolve a medical issue. I am not entirely sure what this  questions is asking, however I am very interested in learning more about medical and health conditions.
-1	i have very little knowledge regarding health and medical issues. i probably would have to have an extreme episode to know there is something wrong.
1	An acquaintance of mine told me her symptoms and I actually gave her the same diagnosis as her doctor did a month later.
-1	Nothing demonstrates my knowledge. I need explanations and I guess most of the time so I don't look stupid by saying I don't know.
1	I do not understand what this question wants me to state. I am 40 years old with 4 children. I have had 4 surgeries and 1 of my children has had 1 surgery. 2 of my 4 children are vaccine injured. 
-1	I have had to help clients understand doctor visits through work and also with taking my own child to the doctor over the years for various issues. 
-1	I'm not sure I know how to answer this question. I once had severe abdominal pain not long after my mother had simiar pain and was diagnosed with colon cancer. I went to the emergency room where I wqs diagnosed with a kidney stone.
-1	Nothing since I am in perfect health and all my doctor metrics are within range of where they are supposed to be.
1	When I was a runner I used to calculate my maximum heart rate and then attempt to perform at seventy percent of that.
-1	I once had a gall bladder attach and was obviously in very much pain. Went online and self diagnosed what I thought it was-so went to the emergency room. I talked with my doctor after the incident and we discussed the options and how to keep this from happening again. we changed my diet and learned what I was able to eat and not eat to make sure that this would not happen again-which it has not
1	I was recommended for dental surgery this fall and followed the process for a referral and preliminary examination. I have been researching my various options and learning about the difference between basic vs. restorative work and what my insurance will cover.  
-1	Not much,yet still stats are just math not human fears if relay on just math ,math is adjustable,not a cure,in my worries math is not a solution ,curing insurance is.
1	I grew up in a house with elderly grandparents then parents I was used to being around people who had illnesses.  due to that I have been able to share learned information with other people
1	I have never had an experience where I needed to use any medical knowledge above general knowledge of health. I did work corrections so I was prepared for many situations but didn't have to use it. 
-1	I have studied medical situations that occur in the real world since I'm studying to be a anesthesiologist 
-1	Not that much see a ill bit different from what I use to n read about the same so but health is important to me but my w s y
-1	 Depression. I was diagnosed with once. I stayed with mom.  And was prescribed to take meds and also got high cholesterol pills once.
1	I really don't have an exact experience. Just by going to the MD and researching whatever I can remember that he said.
1	Being diagnosed with Chronic Migraines. Having prior been diagnosed with Bi polar 2 when I was in high school going through family trauma, death of a mother, and puberty.. But it was definitely Bi Polar 2..
1	I have no specific examples, however, I've never had to consult with a third party regarding understanding medical or health information.  I am able to understand healthcare issues well.
1	I was the caregiver for my Mother for the last seven years of her life, until she was 94. In that capacity, I was responsible for her medicines and health care. As her health Power of Attorney, I advised her on health care matters and sat in on all her physician's appointment. After each appointment, I made sure she understood the information. She was very hearing impaired. At the end of her life, she was unable to make her own decisions so I had to make decisions about her health care. I have also taught first aid, CPR and bloodborne pathogens for the American Red Cross.
-1	Receiving a Power Port and the benefits from it.  Looking up many medications, the side effects and benefits from them.  Completing new patient paperwork.
-1	In 2003 I was put into a drug induced coma by an uninsured drunk driver. Since then,14 years later,I'm still under medical care regularly. I've been forced to understand my health and how to keep myself well as much as I can.
-1	the chance of having cancer is great because many of my family members have been diagnosed with cancer and some have passed away
-1	A time that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when discussing my allergies with my doctor and what to do to control them.
1	I read a lot of the latest health related books. My most recent books read are by Anthony William, regarding the real cause of many mystery illnesses. He confirms that most illnesses are due to viruses, and eating fruits and vegetables is usually the answer.
-1	IBS having a lot of pain in my stomach not known what's wrong with you and worrying something else is wrong 
-1	I am in the process of undergoing cataract surgery.  I understood the pre and post op instructions as well as the medication used and possible side effects
-1	I was recently diagnosed with arthritis that caused me to have a hammer toe.  When the dr told me what was wrong I knew exactly that the arthritis had formed in my toe joints and pushed my toes up and side ways
-1	I went to the emergency room on a friday and i could not breath, well they decided i had COPD but when i went to my doctor i found out i had bronchitis.
-1	I have taught myself to read food labels re:  portion sizes and have lost 50 pounds in the past year.
-1	I can not recall any specific times that I have really had to use any knowledge about health or medical issues. The only time are when my daughter, whom is autistic, goes to the doctor.
-1	"My father, my father, my father.  We were a home of ""wholesome, homemade meals"" before it was in vogue. My father would actually take the time at the dinner table to talk about whole foods, gardening and respecting the earth. I just knew he was spot on!"
-1	I had to have a mammogram for a lump that I had found turned out to be a cyst so I  knew that I would need to take care of this quickly
1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes, I already knew a lot about it. My mother had diabetes all of her adult life. She couldn't see well enough to draw her insulin from the bottles. I have done it for her many times.
-1	I suffered a heart attack in november 2014,while already in the hospital having a left side hip replacement.I had already had the replacement,and was in the recovery room,when i had the heart attack.doctors told me that had i not already been in the hospital,i would not have survived,as i have one main artery closed,and  have a stint in another artery.
-1	i really do not have to much knowledge, except with what problems i have, i could tell someone about them
-1	When I had a c section they sewed my stomach lining.  My stomach became huge & I had to have surgery again.  The way my stomach was sticking out it was obvious something was wrong.
-1	I had gall bladder problems. I had to learn what that was, where it was, what parts of the body could be affected if not treated. What were the treatment and the side effects of the treatments, how evasive was the surgery, how long was the recovery, and what the benefits were.
1	I told anatomy and physiology classes in college. They taught me how the body works. Therefore I know when mine or someone else's is not working correctly it needs fixing!
1	The experience in my life that show I know something about medical issues is when my nieces call me to come over to their homes to check on the problems the kids are having with injuries....illnesses or insect bite they might have...They want to know if they should take the kids to the doctor and want my opinion....This happens all the time so I must know something.I haven't been wrong yet..
-1	i just try to eat right and try to do everything i can to do all that is right by what my doctor have said to do so maybe i can live a happy life
1	When I had a stress fracture in my foot. I hadn't had a traumatic event to cause a broken bone, but with the symptoms I was having, I was able to figure out it was a small fracture anyway due to stress from exercise and sports. My doctor confirmed that it was indeed a stress fracture. 
-1	I am able to fill out paper work for others with ease and swiftness. I always do this for my children and myself so i feel experienced in this.
-1	Many years ago I was told by my doctor that I had high blood pressure.  It didn't surprise me because others in my family did too - siblings.  So he prescribed an RX and now it is normal when checked.
-1	Living healthy life is the best because the experience of pain is nothing to write home about. And the response to treatment when using drugs is the best experience 
-1	Well, I haven't really had that much experience with knowledge of health and medical issues. I just have what the ordinary person would know about these things. A Slight knowledge, I would say..
1	My sister died of a hole in her heart at the age of eight in 1959.  I was about ten .  I learned a lot about the heart and how it works from listening to the adults discuss my sisters problem
-1	I had sudden pain in my lower back and felt nauseated and got dizzy. I made it to the bed to lie down until my wife came home from work to take me to the hospital. It was a kidney stone which I thought it was because my relatives had hem once and explained what they felt like
-1	these confused me a little a lot of math was involved in these questions and i had no calculator but i didmy best
-1	I have had quite a few medical issues in my life and my family has a long list of medical problems. I try to keep myself informed about the latest in my medical profile.i am always learning something new.
-1	My husband was diagnosed with cancer  and I had to help him decide on treament and what his best choices were in oncologists and treatment centers
1	My doctor said because of me being overweight that I would have high cholesterol. I had a blood test done and it showed that I was fine.
-1	I have family members that have had some of the medical issues. Also I have a math degree to help with the numbers 
-1	I have a Asthma so anytime someone brings it up I have a lot of knowledge about t and can always help them out
1	At an early age i was diagnosed with diverticulitis and instead of taking any medication I completely changed my diet. In the 22 years since my first attack I've only had one.
-1	Had a broken leg due to being hit on a bicycle.  Understood the procedures I needed to go through in addition to physical therapy requirements.
1	When I started wheezing after exercising I connected that to my childhood asthma issues and put two and two together. I realized that I had exercise induced asthma even if it's not as bad as it was when I was a kid.
1	i worked security in the er for ten lousy emotional weird years, strung out on mongoose and farrier anf wish for a world run by the trumps
1	I have no such experience in my life, so I can't tell you about it. I have absolutely nothing else to say here.
-1	When I had to have a c section, I did a lot of research about what that would mean for me and my body, as well as for my baby. I thought that I had a good idea about what would happen post surgery 
-1	My grandmother got diabetes at the age of 70 i learned everything i could about it went to classes and everything. When she went into a fiabetic coma i knew what it was and what to do
1	called 911 when it appeared someone was having a heart attack and notified appropriate personnel on site in the interim
-1	my family has a high rate of heart disease, so when my mother died at age 66 I knew I had to take care of health.
1	Took my Mom to a Cardiologist and she wasn't telling him everything she needed to tell him.  He was going to prescribed warfarin, and I told the doctor she was very unsteady and had fallen several times and she shouldn't take it; I was right!
-1	I woke up sweating profusely, persecutors a very short time. I sent to Emergency and after an EKG and other tests was told I he a heart attack. I knew they was a serious event occurring
-1	My husband woke in middle of night with a rash. In the morning I checked the md website and decided he has shingles. Transported him by car to emergency room where he was diagnosed with shingles and given prescription for pain. 
1	I realized that at my age and former lifestyle and family history, the probability of a stroke or heart attack was a real issue the had to be investigated. After discussion with my PCP, he sent me to a cardiologist for a stress test and further examination. I passed the test but was told to reduce sodium intake to less than 1000mg/day and to take a baby aspirin daily.
-1	I have not had any experiences that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I always do searches n the web to find answers.
1	in 1985 I was in a motorcycle wreck in which I broke C6, C7 and T1 in my neck. I had surgery and was in a body cast for 8 months followed my months of therapy. This was my first experience, i have several others I could tell about too.
-1	I can't really think of an experience at this time, because when I found out that I have Lupus in 2015 I knew nothing at all about it. Before that I've basically gotten good results
1	I work at an animal hospital and have to relay medical information everyday to pet owners.  I've been there for 9 years and a lot of stuff has sunk into my brain to the point that i'm able to give advice to friends and family about some questions they may have about their pets.  As far as human medicine, I live a fairly healthy life and actually havent been to a doctor in several years.
-1	Relating effectively with patients is among the most valued skills of clinical care. As a beginning clinician, you will focus your energies on gathering information. At the same time, by using techniques that promote trust and convey respect, you will allow the patients story to unfold in its most full and detailed form. Establishing a supportive interaction helps the patient feel more at ease when sharing information and itself becomes the foundation for therapeutic clinicianpatient relationships. 4 Because illness can make patients feel discouraged and isolated, A feeling of connectedness with the doctor, of being deeply heard and understood, reduces this feeling of isolation and despair. This feeling is the very heart of healing
-1	No school knowledge, just stuff pick up from my wife, who is very knowledgeable regarding the subject...she is a practicing psychotherapist, and a former RN...
1	My son had a heart transplant I learned very quickly how to convert meds from mg to ml.  Also you learn so much just sitting in the hospital day after day.
-1	I filled out forms for my father. He's not healthy by far. You name it he has it so I administer his medicine so I need to know a lot
-1	Everyday is a knowledge of health and medical issues just waking my up with pain or no pain very hard to say been lucky so far 
-1	I've had bladder cancer and I also am a diabetic, so both of these has helped me understand a little bit about medical issues
-1	I was over medicated during an outpatient surgery. The medical knowledge about the drugs given to me by the medical professional. They did all they could to help me.
-1	I have blood tests and yearly mammograms.  I understand about false positives, and luckily have not had that experience.
-1	I really haven't had any medical conditions besides having high blood pressure which I'm maintaining at this very moment.
-1	About 5 years ago when I was diagnosed with AFIB, I knew nothing about the disease.  I spent a lot of time online educating myself about AFIB. 
-1	I am not sure if I understand much about health and medical issues unless it it something simple like a common cold
-1	I am not really sure. I usually look up information on my conditions and talk to my doctor about what I have learned.
-1	When I was pregnant two times I had c-sections both times. One was a emergency c-section and I was put totally under
1	Once again I refer to the stroke that I had in 2012. I spent 3 months in 3 hospitals and afterwards went through rehab.
-1	Laboratory results and x ray result if a person has high cholesterol or low cholesterol level. Understanding of the xray results too
1	I have had numerous health issues in which I had to be able to understand my own test results.  However, I am also a mother of four, and some of my children have had ongoing problems.  One of my daughters began to have fibrol kidney infections at an early age.  As soon as she would end a round of antibiotics, she would get sick again.  I had to explain to the doctors at the hospital in detail every infection she had had and when they occured, as well as, symptoms, etc.  she received IV antibiotics for a week.  While there, she had a VCUG, which showed a false negative for kidney reflux.  Later, she was positively diagnosed with kidney reflux .  She had the deflux procedure twice because even though the success rate was less than open kidney surgery, it was by far less invasive.  If we had to we could do open surgery later.  Thankfully, the deflux procedure worked.
1	I once had to treat someone for heat exhaustion, and recognized the symptoms (fast pulse, shakiness, dizziness, etc) and was able to bring that person back to normal by giving fluids, applying some cooling water, etc.
-1	I don;t know a whole lot about medical issues, but I do a bit of research on my own. I do like to do certain things and knowing different things.
-1	When my aunt became ill and the doctors were testing her to find out why she had suddenly lost her eyesight and became disoriented my mother said it was because she had gotten AIDS from her friend was as homosexual. I had to convince her that my aunt could not contract AIDS without having blood contact and blindness was not a symptom of AIDS, which the doctors confirmed - she did not have AIDS.
-1	I have had a total hysterectomy, both knees replaced and my right hip replaced.... All in the past five years.
-1	My husband was experiencing heart failure.  His blood pressure was high and he had excessive swelling in his ankles and abdomen.  He also had difficulty in breathing as well as crackles in his lungs signifiying fluid.
-1	My ex husband of eighteen years , at the age of twenty eight started showing signs of confusion and hallucinations .I did not understand at first what was going on until he went to go see a mental health facility .And, he was diagnosed with being paranoid.
-1	I took classes in college that taught me about health and medical issues and I learned a lot from those classes.
-1	After being diagnosed with heart failure I read up on the condition and realized that with the help of my doctor I needed to change my salt intake and amount of food I age.
1	I teach a math for nurses class at a local community college as well as regular research in my own personal health and wellness.
-1	I have acid reflux related disease.  It makes me feel nauseated from time to time.  But I was informed dearly about this disease by my doctor.
1	I don't have an experience from my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.This isn't applicable to me.
-1	I can't think of a time that demonstrated any unusually high level of knowledge involving medical issues.  Guess I can best answer the qyestion by saying I an usualy able to tell if a person has a virus by symptoms they claim to have.
-1	When I got really sick in 2007 and nobody knew what was wrong with me I lost 60 pounds in 3 months then they did blood work and found out I had SLE Lupus
-1	 Finding out that I have congestive heart failure has been tough because I had no knowledge of the disease beforehand.
-1	I have had several health issues which has caused me to do a lot of research on different things. I know a lot of things about many condition's.
1	I researched treatment options for a medical condition, and the physician agreed with my approach with the addition of complementary methods. 
-1	Web sites such as WebMD and other google search sites as I always research every drug, every diagnosis and all information I can gather regarding my current health status
-1	I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia in 2002. Since then I have done a significant amount of research on various remedies which are really helping me but I realize the importance of modern medicine. I have learned to use holistic and herbal treatments along with my prescription medicine.
-1	With my diabetes I learned about A1c and my average readings over a course of time and how to control them
1	When my sister fell from a tree and broke her back, I knew to tell people not to move her. Also, when my mom was bleeding before her hystercomy, I told her she should probably be taking iron.
1	I get the gist of it all but I am not a math genius! I use my common sense and have managed to not kill myself thus far. This is a survey not a IQ test!
-1	I need no knowledge of health and medical issues because I trust my doctor about everything including my health
-1	I was in the Emergency dept for chest pain. I had a slightly elevate blood level that could indicate a blood clot. The resident wanted to do a CT, I understood enough about lab values to refuse the CT and decrease my exposure to radiation.
-1	dont have no replies to this question have no idea I dont do mammograms..im Just living life to the fullest if i start listening to dr reports i'll go spiraling down
1	I went to college for four years to become a Medical Laboratory Scientist. It eqipped me to know a fair amount about disease and health conditions. Though I am not always the best with math word problems.
-1	I was diagnosed with Anemia and I understood what the condition was and why I had it. I understand that the body needs a certain amount of iron for our red blood cells for our bodies to function properly.
-1	I had a inflamed swelling on the second finger of my right hand. Usually it's a splinter, but I didn't see anything. Finally the side turned white and it was a holiday weekend. I could spend a couple of hours in the emergency room, or I could soak a needle in alcohol and lance it myself, which I did. All this grey pus came out, and I soaked it in alcohol. I kept an eye on it, squeezing any extra puss out, resoaking in alcohol and changing bandages. I looks fine now.
-1	I guess a 4.0 average in the premed I studied would suffice to answer this although I have never needed to prove this.
1	I was trained in combat first aid in the military. When stationed in California I assisted in delivering a child. The mother having gone into labor on the access road to the base in the early hours of the morning
-1	My granddaughter had some systemic swelling. Her mother took her to the dr and she was prescribed an allergy medication. After 3 days she continued to have swelling and I told her mother to return to the dr because I think he had made an incorrect diagnosis. He had, she saw a specialist and is currently on a life saving treatment
-1	I think I do okay with my knowledge of medical terms. This was a fun eye- opening experience. I appreciate this survey.
-1	Was taking certain medications and I had an allergic to something I soon realized that I need to either get medical care or take something to help myself.
-1	I don't want to demonstrate so I'll just set here and write a bunch of gibberish and nonexistent words.
-1	I assisted in helping a civilian from heat stroke during the heat of summer of 110 degrees. I've been informative to EMT people and knowledgeable about medical history of my family members 
-1	"I had trouble swallowing food sometimes, and hard food would get ""stuck"" and I would have to throw up to remove it. I researched it and it sounded like hiatal hernia. Turned out to be hiatal hernia."
-1	I was told by a doctor there was a good chance i had mononucleosis. I knew that with the symptoms i had that it wasnt strep throat and that the doctor was probably right.
1	My mother and maternal grandfather both died of heart disease. Because of this, I know that geneticly I'm at an increased risk of having heart related issues.
-1	I really can't think of any for myself.  My father was diagnosed with breast cancer years ago, so my family had to digest a great deal of medical terminology.
-1	I work hard to look up information  to help my mother in law with health issues.  I try to stay informed about issues she brings up so I can give her good advice. 
-1	I recently had bursitis of the shoulder. It was very painful and I did quite a bit of research online to determine why I had the condition and what I needed to do for it to heal. I also watched YouTube videos for physical therapy ideas. 
1	I've more than once come upon an accident scene and had the presence of mind to prevent people from moving someone until EMTs could arrive and assess the situation; on one of those occasions, the person had snapped her ankle and her foot was hanging to the side yet someone wanted to help her stand.  As a mom, there have been more instances over the years than I can call to mind.
-1	I was recently diagnosed as having POTS. My symptoms of profuse sweating and dizziness when standing and then fainting are not caused by a problem with my heart. I have had an echo cardiogram and stress test which are perfectly normal.. However my problem is caused by a problem with my autonomic nervous system. 
-1	When I was outside working in my yard, I began to feel the early effects of a heat stoke. I made my way inside and drank a lot of cold water and sat in the shade in order to cool down.
-1	i have taken nursing in high school and was a nurse aid . i received a nursing diploma . my mom was also a nurse and would give me some advise
-1	My husband developed many problems during the course of our marriage & I always took care of him.  When they put him in a rehab center after a fall, they were short on nurses, so I did what he needed - changed bandages, gave medication, dressed his wounds, etc.  I was commented on my efficiency & they were surprised that I was not a nurse. 
-1	I was a ifrefighter in the navy, and have performed cpr to save a couple poeples lives. Also  I have been Involed in a couple bad accidents and knew not to move because where the pain was and is probably why  I am still walking 
-1	good stuff so awful and horrible in the world terrible cool things sweet stuff in the wordl bad terrible
1	I have learned basic health from school and classes.  Most of this was math and it was really easy to do.  If it was actual medical stuff, I would not know how to do it.
-1	when i fold out i had a kidney stone gallstones and i needed my gallbladder out of my body.i tried to use home remedies to help with pain and ease
-1	I don't really have expierence with medical information so this was kind of hard for me to fill out accurately
-1	Read well about the disease I have to know the risks I run and what diet I can follow how to take the medicine as explained
1	A few years ago I had a very stressful co-worker who  made my life miserable.  I developed Atypical Facial Pain.  The initial sensations were weird, hard to describe and I didn't know what direction to go in.  Initially, I thought the sensations were related to allergies, a cold, tooth issue.  I remember calling my primaries office one day and when they ask what my issues were and I said that my face was numb.  The nurse rushed off the phone and said I want you to immediately call 911.  I'm like no ... I just need an apt today.  We recommend you get to the ER.  Having had the sensations for a while, I knew that it was not life threatening and need to start to find out the cause and how to treat my issues.
-1	I had to learn about my health conditions from diagnosis to research.  I not only consulted with my doctor but also sought papers from Mayo Clinic and Cleveland Clinic
1	I took a class called professional health jobs and it was really nice. I think I was at the top of that class because there were a lot of things that I knew more about that the other students knew less about I suppose. I ended up with an A. 
-1	I was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease and renal stenosis. In many cases the doctors will explain the issues I am having and then I'll go home and google it so it's in terms I understand. Once I read up I am able to associate some of the doctors terms with ones they use at follow up appointments 
-1	Its   more   of   a   mental  health   issue  with   me   but   also   have  physical   ailments  that  I   often   dismiss   because  I   really   don't   want   to   hear   a   bad  report   about   something
1	After my husband was diagnosed with basal cell carcinoma, I went online to get information about the MOHS surgery he was scheduled to have.  When meeting with the P.A for pre op counseling, I was able to ask questions that were pertinent to the surgery and to his recovery.
-1	10 or so years ago; my friend said she described the symptoms of vertigo  she was suffering.  Her and her father had never heard of vertigo.  I knew from what she was saying that she was suffering from vertigo and had her cousin drive her and I to the doctors.
-1	When I was diagnosed with breast cancer I spoke with a few doctors before I felt comfortable deciding on the treatment I would take and the risks involved. FI looked at the percentage of different alternatives and decided which path to go
1	My doctor, aware that I have kidney problems, prescribed metformin and sulfonurea drugs to lower my blood sugar.  I was already controlling my type 2 diabetes fairly well with insulin injections.
-1	when I had the left side of my pututary gland remove and having how the operation will be held and the recovery length
-1	I dont know anything about health other than making sure my health is good and my kids health is good.
-1	When i first found out about my dieabets i did not know what to do but now my doctor has me at eazeno more worries
-1	When I was twelve years old, a drunk driver hit the car my mother was driving while I was in the backseat. I have very few memories of the accident, but I do faintly recall a serious but calming face as I was gently lifted out of the car. The paramedic held my hand as we traveled to the hospital. I was in the hospital for several weeks and that same paramedic came to visit me almost every day. During my stay, I also got to know the various doctors and nurses in the hospital on a personal level. I remember feeling anxiety about my condition, but not sadness or even fear. It seemed to me that those around me, particularly my family, 
1	I was told that I had gout.  I don't like taking medication.  I decided that rather than put poison in my body I would try the natural approach.  I used black cherry and celery seed to take care of the problem.
-1	I really can't think of anything except maybe natural or self treatment (i.e., pink eye)....used a solution of baby shampoo and water and got rid of it without going to a doctor.
-1	Nothing really sticks out in my mind. All I can say is that anytime I have seen a doctor and they gave me information that I already knew about and was easy to comprehend
-1	when i have virigo AND i did not know what is about.  i would havee to read it in a medical web site to better understand
-1	My friend having prostate cancer .  Me having cervical  cancer,  and working in the medical field for years!
-1	i had all the symptoms of carpal tunnel but i was tested for that and don't have it. i read some more and discovered that the symptoms of spinal stenosis mimic that of capral tunnel. i was tested and do have spinal stenosis.
-1	Knowing what I was being diagnosed with from having a prior diagnosis or know someone who has. I may even know alittle about it by research that i may have done prior.
1	My doctor said my liver enzymes were elevated. I researched the problem and found herbs and vitamins that help lower enzymes. The next visit I had my liver enzymes were normal.
1	Several years ago I had chronic bronchitis. I had seen a doctor and treated it with medication more than once, but it persisted. Eventually I began coughing up rust colored sputum, running a fever and feeling generally ill. I knew that was not a symptom of brochitis, so I researched and foundthat it indicated an abcess in the lung. I went to the emergency room and told the nurse what I suspected, but she assured me that it was very unlikely and confidently told me I most likely had pnuemonia. After several hours of tests, it turned out that I did in fact have an abcess on my lung for which I was hospitalized and treated with heavy antibiotics for 6 days as well as a month more after being realeased.
-1	My mother all ways told me stay in shape in work out to stay fit and u will be healthy and u can live a long life
-1	12yrs ago I came in from work(i'm a local truckers that haul dirt and other thing) anyway icame in and when I got out of the truck I could hardly walk and felt very numb. Went straight to the clinic they though I had a heart attack but didn't. It took them 3mos. To find out it was my back.
1	My husband's father, his brother, and my husband all have a degree of alcoholism with the father having been the worst.  When my son was born, as soon as he was old enough to understand the perils of drinking, I explained how he was at risk of becoming an alcoholicm   They all are or were, unwilling to discuss their problems with foctors.  Now, I believe, my son, is traveling the same road but cannot get him to visit a doctor.
-1	I become diabetic type 2. I went to a class about this and received a certificate of completion, to learn about diets, carbs, etc.. but I am terrible with math !!! Lol
1	I have been working for nearly 30 years as a RN.  5 years as a bedside nurse and 25 years as a nurse case manager.  I float to every service in a busy university teaching hospital and have vast knowledge of many specialties.  I assisted with counseling my family on various medical issues they are having, such as when my brother in law had a TBI and needed extensive treatments and rehabilitation.  
1	My doctor, knowing my list of prescribed medications and having gone over them with me during my appointment, prescribed me a new medication that could have had very serious adverse side effects, including death, due to a reaction with one of my other prescriptions. Thankfully I knew not to just take doctors at their word and did my research. I called and asked for a different medication. 
1	I have A-Fib, and it is controlled through diet / exercise. I keep up to date an all pertinent information and my GP is great, and my Cardiologist is a world famous MD at  UPMC in Pittsburgh
1	My daughter was fed on a tube for the first 3 years of her life. Most doctors insisted that she would only thrive if she stayed on the feeding tube. I disagreed and sought out a doctor that would help me safely get my daughter off of the tube feedings. I found one, followed his advice and my daughter was off the tube within 9 months. 
-1	When I experience indigestion on a regular basis I consulted my doctor who requested that I be tested to see if I have acid after it was determined that the cause was acid reflux I made the necessary changes to my diet.
-1	Having 3 back surgery's and looking to have my 4th back surgery that I need. I  can't get any one to help me out. I keep on trying every Doctor that I can find.
-1	I am a registered dietitian and worked with patients on medical issues for over 35 years.  This gave me much knowledge of many medical issues and condititions.
1	I am allergic to many things.  One of my reaction is hives.  I recognize it when my son had hives and was able to figure out what it was in reaction to.  I gave him Benadryl.
-1	i go to the emergency rome and have worked in a field requiring basic medicaln training i cant believe that this survey is asking a detiled backgrnd question such as this 
-1	The way this question is worded does not give a concise direction for the desired way in which to answer the question. I have an extensive knowledge of medical and health issues.
-1	I am not sure what to type here because I have really not experienced this. I don't know how to answer this
-1	had  cancer behind my nose was treated with radeatuion and cemo all went preaty well tahat was back in 2010 know i a doing fine and well
-1	I cannot think of and experience in my life that I had a great deal of knowledge of a health or medical issue or problem.
1	I told my late husband many times what he should or shouldnt do for his symptoms, but he never listened.  He would then ask his Dr the same question, nd get the same answer I gave him.
-1	when I had a bruising problem and had to go into the hospital to get tests run and it was discovered that I had a condition that could be easily treated
1	I had tuberculosis when I was about 25 years old. I learned a lot about being tested positive and actually having the progressed disease and therefore being contagious. My husband and 3 children tested positive but were not latent. I however was latent and contagious. We all had to take meds but will always test positive...etc..t learned a lo I lot that year about the disease. Thank God I live in this century.
-1	went to school for medical billing and coding and made straight A's on all my medical courses. Even in high school I made straight A's in Biology. Love learning about anything medical. I find it fascinating.
1	At one point, I was incorrectly diagnosed by a doctor, and actually found the correct diagnosis through my own research.
-1	I am not knowledgeable about health and medical issues. I only know what my doctor helps me understand about my own. 
-1	Am experience in my life that demonstrated my health issues was when I was told that I had high cholesterol and I needed to start eating healthier and cut back on some of the foods that I eat to make sure that it is something that won't tomurn out to be a permanent thing
-1	When I had my children. I learned much about birth and child rearing through my doctor and reading about it.
-1	A time in my life was when I had my pneumonia problems when I was ten years old. It really made me sick and I lost my appetite 
-1	When I had back Surgery & developed complications  which was a very bad spinal leak after I had a Spinal Tap done I was in bed flat on my back for 2 weeks
1	When I was diagnosed with something, I asked the doctor questions, then I followed up my research by checking WebMD and other websites to see what I could do to help lessen my symptoms and ways of getting off of a prescription.
-1	family member had heart attack, knew to encourage daily walking, eating less meat and fat, more fish, vegtables etc.
1	After repeatedly receiving abnormal lab results that would correct after treatment for a little bit of a time.  After so many tries, I decided to get a second opinion.  I also had second opinions regarding a family member.  
1	I can't think of any one time, but I have been able to explain some medical terms or procedures to someone else based on the knowledge I have.
-1	I had severe abdominal pain.  I knew I was having a gall bladder attack.  When rushed to the hospital they treated me for my heart.  I was released and a week later was rushed to er with a gall bladder attack again and my gall bladder was removed.
-1	I was diagnosed with kidney stones when i was pregnant with my daughter, 5 years ago. I recently started having pain in my back that felt like another kidney stone. I went to the hospital and i was right.
1	I'm cpr and first aid trained.  I'm not afraid to call 911 or administer care in an emergency situation.
1	I was working on a phd in neuroscience, and have been in multiple medical environments. I have had to interact and analyze lab results for myself and for my grandparents.
-1	I actually used to attend college to be a nursing assistant. I also attended school to be a medical biller and coder and I learned so much through medical terminology and even having my own medical experiences.
-1	I have been able to successfully manage and understand my intermittent explosive disorder as well as my generalized anxiety and major depression. I also know when to seek help for uncontrollable symptoms.
-1	In some situations I have looked up my symptoms on the online medical sites and made a decision to visit the Dr on the basis of matching these symptoms to examples on the website and have usually been correct
-1	I have had irregular mammograms that has caused me to study up and better understand how things work. 
-1	my mother was killed by breast cancer. She had both breast removed of course her life was never the same and my dads life was changed along with the rest of us, she was one of the 30
-1	When I encountered a fellow co-worker who was injured and unconscious I knew how to administer CPR and basic first aid until EMS came to the scene.
-1	When working with a person in the rehab gym I may have to check resting BP with some people before exercise and then afterwards.
-1	I have tried to stay on top of the latest health info. I try to take my doctor's advice and try to be more careful when it comes to my health as I have aged
1	I've worked as a CNA doing clinicals in college a few years ago. We had to apply what we had learned in the field. We also did class demonstrations for practice and skill mastery. 
-1	I can not think of any experience in my life to do this. I try to keep up on the medical world but I can't actually say I have complete knowledge of these issues.
-1	When I was 2mo pregnant with my second child, I never got thirsty. I could never recall the last time I had drank anything. I'd sometimes go a day or so with no water, maybe an occasional soda during the evenings. One morning I was rudely awakened with a pain I could not describe but somehow felt like I was being strangled on the inside of my lower left side. I went to the ER and came to realize I had Pylonepuhritis. 
-1	I went to the doctor to see what was wrong with my stomach, it was hurting consistently. I found out it may be gallstones, and I immediately asked about what foods I should and shouldn't eat, and asked what the procedure was to help gallstones.
-1	i had a knee replacement. i research all the medications i was precribed. i also read all about the expectations for a complete recovery. i also researched the exercises and their benefits.
-1	i had sever kidney disease stayed in the hospital 8 days i passed a kidney stone threw up and had back pain
-1	My mom had a mini stroke a couple years ago and I had started school for medical assisting. Having a couple classes I understood about MRIs and was able to see what didn't belong in her scan
-1	i really don't know what the question is or how to explain it i really don't know i really don't know how
1	i worked in various environments in the past filling prescriptions and counseling patients on the drugs used to treat their various medical issues.
-1	I really don't have any health experience. I try to look things up online or I ask friends; or family. They have no answer. I then call the doctoer
1	I went in for a stress test a while back and it came back abnormal so they did a test to check. They went into my veins and while they were there they discovered  a blockage at 2 different places and installed stents.
-1	I don't know anything about what you are talking about I don't have any health problems and i never go to the doctor unless I need to
-1	My boyfriend was having chest pains. He was anxious about a new job that he had started and was being left alone to manage and close the store after only 2 days of training. The Doctors did several tests to find the cause of the pain.  When i went to visit him in the ER i asked if anxiety could be the cause, and they asked if he was anxious.  They prescribed anti anxiety meds and helped him come up with a plan to speak with his employer about having additional support for a few more days and the chest pains vanished.
1	I worked for a state mental institution when I was a young man, we had to do TPR's on patients. I think that about sums it up.
-1	When my fiance past away from a rare bladder cancer 3 yrs back i learned alot from that. Still trying to heal from it but it takes a lot to understand the condiition how to treat and how to comfort.
-1	When I took antibiotics I know when I take it I can get hurt if I don't take probiotics. It can be risky and hurt my digestive track.
-1	When my wife had a stroke I knew from previously dealing with family members what to expect . So was pleasantly surprised when she beat the averages
-1	There has been no time because I am not that knowledgeable about health issues and concerns due to not being that smart
1	Last year I was at my mother's. She lives in a senior facility. There is a lake on property that we walk to often. One day we arrived at the lake and there was a male resident, wheelchair bound, there. He appeared to be asleep. My mother didn't realize he was there. I immediately had concern. One of those feelings you can't explain. I decided to just keep an eye on him while we were feeding the turtles. I would look his way often and noticed he had moved his wheelchair into a different position. I continued to observe him, but I looked away for a few minutes. Next thing I know he was lying prone on the ground. It appeared that he was grabbing at a tree to pull himself up. That did it for me and I went over to offer my assistance. When I got to him he refused my help. And I realized he was using the tree to push himself to the water. He was going to commit suicide. I used my knowledge of depression (I have suffered through my own recurrent depression for 20 years) and began talking to him and listening to him all while trying to physically hold him still. I became his friend for those moments he really needed someone. I may have been the one who saved his life, but God gave me the calm and physical strength to hold him until some more help arrived.
1	Nothing really comes to mind except diagnosing myself. I know when I have the common cold versus when I have a sinus infection or bronchitis.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues would be when other people ask my opinion about medical issues that they have, subsequently establishing that I must be perceived to have great medical prowess.
-1	When I had a surgery that the doctor did a oops surgery on.I learned a lot about medical information because I had to go through issues for a year.
-1	when i got the flu, i knew what the symptoms of flu are so I figured it was the flu and i also knew that there were certain things i needed to do to help myself get better and stronger.
-1	i just know that when my kids where sick they needed to go to thet docotor or have soem medicin and also i have allergies and i know whne i need medicine
-1	When I was told I had to have a surgical procedures, because my condition was beginning to impact other organs and that was  not going to be good, as I could now develop other medical issues as well as the condition I needed the procedure for was getting worst, so I made the decision to go with the surgery and then take the necessary time off from work, restricted my activities in order to heal properly.
-1	I have had shoulder surgery and after my surgery I had to learn how to move and use my arm so I don't pull my shoulder out again
1	At one of my annual cardiovascular stress tests, I received an indication of a possible blockage in my heart. I was told that it could be a false positive reading because the machine was apt to produce that in 10% of the readings. I chose to have an angiogram to rule out blockage bacause my mother had suffered blockages that caused her to have open heart surgery.
-1	Just trying to interpret pamphlets or  literature in the doctors office is a cause for concern.You wish they used easier terminology and the likeness.
-1	Deciding that my quality of life vs menopausal symptoms was with me trying the hormonal patch to give me a better quality of life
-1	My children have asthma and I share any information I have or knowledge I have to inform people about this disease. There is a correlation between people that have asthma and eczema. If you have asthma you have a 50% chance of having eczema and vice versa. If you have a family member with asthma you have a 50% to have asthma.
-1	I just wanted to say I hope I am doing really well on this survey because I dist know it was gonna be about math that isn't my strong sute and I'm very angry 
1	I was diagnosed with breast cancer 2 years ago, I chose a surgeon based upon doctor recommendation and recommendation of a friend. The surgeon assisted me in choosing an oncologist, who placed me on aggressive chemo therapy. Although I had originally planned to work through the chemo, I quickly realized that this was too stressful, and went on medical leave. I researched diets to help me deal with the chemo.  I opted for a double mastectomy (I couold have opted for a lumpectomy on one breast) in order to minimize my chances of remission.
1	I researched alternative methods for hip and knee replacement and that knowledge helped when finding out about umbilical cord stem cell injections.
1	when I saw a baby dr for my third child and said I wouldn't accept blood transfusions; he had to argue a bit about that in case of great blood loss. I knew that it was actually needing volume in the blood vessels that was first needed in that case, then something to carry oxygen.
-1	I have been a medical professional for over twenty years. I best experience was when I successfully  preformed CPR on on a patient. 
-1	When I had my knee replacement, I studied and researched the surgical procedure and after-care plans. I knew what to expect and what to watch out for. I was able to complete my physical therapy easier and be very helpful to the therapist. I was able to discontinue my pain meds quickly and resume my life.
-1	When I have had to switch doctor's, I havehad to educate them a lot of times on my diabetes and my treatments.
-1	"i cannot think of an experience that has demonstrated my knowledge, but i know how i feel. if you tell me that i am wrong and i really feel a different way because i have ""such an such"" disease i am most likely to not believe what i am told, because I KNOW how i feel. you do not and you have no right to tell me that i am wrong because some book told you so"
-1	the first 2 yrs of my life i had 6 stays in a hospital. the visits increased as i grew. i had weird conditions that were very hard to diagnosis when living in the mid west and the dr's tell your mother that she is just seeking attention and her symptoms are in her head. when the conditions were finally diagnosed the operations were more intense and a much longer recuperation.
-1	I had many biopsies for cervical cancer. I even had the leep procedure.                                                                                                                                        
-1	WHEN I HURT MY LEG, I HURT A  POPPING SOUND IN MY CALF AND I HAD A HARD TIME WALKING AND IT SWELLED UP AND TURNED BLACK AND BLUE. I REMEMBER THE R I C E PHRASE, REST-ICE-COMPRESSION-ELEVATION. THIS HELPED A GREAT DEAL AND I WAS ABLE TO HEAL FASTER AS A RESULTS
-1	I had a friend who was suffering from some acute abdominal pain with a high fever. The pain was centralized to one specific side, so I informed my friend she needed to be seen for appendicitis 
-1	I graduated  from nursing school but have been humbled by this test. Math is not my strong suit. Lol!
-1	I know only what I am told by a doctor or someone in the health field. I learn from what doctors tell me to do and take 
-1	When I was a child I found out I had scoliosis very bad. I was told I would need to wear a back brace and if I didn't I needed to have spinal surgery. Needless to say I've been a hypochondriac since. 
-1	when I had my period and I knew that I was bleeding to much and something was wrong and I had to have something done
-1	I've been sick a lot. I have Crohn's disease, HLA B-27 blood factor, anklingosis spondolitis, psoratic athritis, I've almost lost my arm, don't know what caused that, I gave birth to 4 children and I'm a veterinarian technician.
-1	When I has my mammogram about 2 years ago, which they find a very little lump in upper part of my breast. Then I have to go and take X-rays again with an expert, but it turn out to be very same little lump that was there 10 years ago, with no change.
-1	I developed a nagging cough after being prescribed a high blood pressure medicine.   When I went back two months later I still had the cough, but had looked up on the internet to see if it was a side effect of the medicine and it was.   The doctor was in the middle of saying that she would up the dose of the medicine for my high blood pressure when I mentioned that I had read that it could be causing my constant  cough.   She changed me to another medicine and the cough went away.
-1	when talking to my doctor about some symptoms I was experiencing I was able to describe things and suggest possible cuases
-1	Since I've always bee interested and well read about the history of medicine and pathology I've been mostly able to prevent unnecessary expenses of visiting doctors for non important issues.  I've also had a career in surgical pathology that paid the bills.
-1	i have a bug bite on my ankle that i have been treating at home.  I know that its not infected and that its healing because its getting smaller in size.  
-1	I know that you will have symptoms that can be acute and then go away. I know that some medications can react negatively when taken with other medications. I also know that prescriptions can be modified.
-1	none as I have been of excellent health all my life thus far.  I can't say anything else as I haven't had an experience
1	I raised two daughters. I have been through high temperatures and  vomiting once a month and even a daughter being bullied so much that she pulled her hair out. I worked through all of these situations. My oldest daughter was hit b y a car. I slept at the hospital until she was in a regular room. Before that my mother had surgery and she died in the hospital .I had to tell them autopsy or not , where to send the vody etc. 
-1	once I broke my finger, but i didn't really pay attention to it. When I realized it was swallowing and bruising i realized that it was broken 
-1	I read a lot of medical information and try to find out everything I can especially if there is a problem with Meir someone in my family
-1	I just had pneumonia an was told I now have A mass . I have Lung Cancer . I went through an operation an hopefullygone
-1	blood was taking to test for different health problems. when results were returned I listened to what doctor said and looked at papers giving to me to see results for myself
-1	I know you lying. The only thing I can be used to be a good girl . She said she was going to be okay with you and your family and friends and family services  numbers thats hiring manager of the day of school and college and university of California at the time to 
-1	when i had a flare up of IBS i knew i had to go to the emergerency room ASAP and they kept me in the hospital for 4 days 
1	I received a degree in Health Science so I'm informed and sensitive to many health issues in the Community. I'm willing to speak with people about their medical issues if they want to talk about. Talking with AARP members on the phone about problems that they're having, I contact a nurse via telephone about their symptoms and let them know what it sounds like. 
-1	One time a ran out of my breathing medicine. My dad went to get a refill but he wasn't quit enough.  I had an attack.  I new enough that my tubes had to open up.  The only thing that helped was putting my head in the freezer.  that did it great. 
1	I helped my sister when she was in the hospital and if I hadn't been there she probably would have died because of a situation that happened that I caught.
1	I went to college and majored in Exercise and Sport Science for 4 years.  I feel like I have a firm understanding of the body and health conditions.
-1	I have had children who have had ear infections.  I know when there is an ear infection, yet still had to make a doctor's appointment to confirm the ear infection before getting the prescription.  I am from a medical family, so medical issues have been discussed many times.
1	My son was vomiting up bile but all the xrays showed no issues.  I knew based on his stats that is was lokely not somethong viral.  I pressed th doctor to speak eith the sirgery team again and theu did another type of xray and found a small catch in bis bowel tbat was causong all the problems.
-1	when doctors explain things to me when i had a dvt and i was in the hospital it helped a lot and i learned new things 
-1	My sister had been told she'd had a lump in her breast. I knew from others with the diagnosis that she'd have to have a biopsy to be sure and most everyone I knew had been fine. She did and the results said she was fine!
-1	I have cared for elderly parents and learned a lot about end of life.  I also have raised three children, one with ODD, one with CP and 2 of the 3 with severve asthma.
1	I was recently put on medicine for migraines. I looked into the medicine and its side effects thoroughly before taking it. I had a much worse headache afterward, which is apparently a reaction to taking the drug too often; since I had only taken it once, I figured that it must be because the dose was too much for me, making it an overdose even though it fit with the pharmacist's instructions. I got in touch with my doctor, who agreed with my plan to cut the dosage in half. It's worked much better since.
1	I was taking blood pressure medicine. It worked well but several years later I started to get light headed. I rechecked it and it was now too low. I asked doctor to lower amount of medicine.
1	i know a little about the health problems that i have had and i have consulted with my doctor and i have taken the necessary precautions for my wellbeing
-1	I had to take a crash course in hepatitis c issues. I had to research the likeliest path of infection, and had a pretty heated argument with a doctor who kept insisting I was lying about never using intravenous drugs.
-1	I have a Masters degree in Social Work.  In the past, I've previously worked as a Clinical Social Worker.  So when talking with my doctor about depression, I knew the symptoms that I needed to tell my physician.  Recently, my mother was prescribed Buspar.  The physician's assistant prescribed it.  During my mother's last visit, I described to her doctor the increased symptoms of depression i.e. sadness, isolation, no joy in activities that she previously enjoyed, etc.  I explained to her doctor that her depression had increased, and that it would be helpful to prescribe my mother an antidepressant rather than just an anti anxiety.
1	i wasn't feel well and my hair kept falling out and kept gaining weight.  so i looked it up and it led me thyroid problems.  i was able to easily diagnose myself and get on medication quickly because my doctor tested me easily and was able to fix my problem.
-1	I myself have never experienced this nor do i have family members that that i know of but i have some friends that have very hard to deal with
-1	What are the best for me today and it was so good right now I have no idea why I have to do it all the best thing on TV and radio station licensed to the gym with 
-1	I am a medical assistant and I medical coder for over 20 years. so I understand a lot of the issues for health care.
1	when my son broke his arm i was asked by his doctor if I was a nurse.  I must have impressed him for him to have asked me that
-1	I had a family member who was diagnosed with PAD, and COPD so I looked up both symptoms and side effects to make sure I totally understood what was going to be the outcome of both symptoms
1	"I knew i was pregnant weeks before a test could confirm. I can feel my heart ""malfunction"" more noticeable than most because of how  long I've had my issue."
-1	I usually experience this when I can talk with the Doctor and he or she agrees with what I am saying.
-1	I GUESSTIMATED ON MOST. I USED THE MOST LOGICAL AND ESTIMATED NUMBER. I USED THE PERCETAGES TO FIGURE OUT  THE ANSWERS TO THE QUESTIONS.
-1	I can't think of any example of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I'm sorry but I can't think of one.
1	I think I can only relate to my own body in these terms.  For example, I suffer from migraines and I know what specific things can trigger one, or what I can do to help mitigate the onset of a migraine before I need medication.  
-1	I don't have much experience or knowledge of health or medical issues. I try to do research online to be more informed.
-1	Because I took three years of medical terminology classes in high school, i am able to understand doctors reports, and notes a little better 
-1	KEEPING TRACK OF MY BLOOD SUGAR AND KEEPING TRACK OF MY BLOOD PRESSURE ON A DAILY BASIS, FUCK THIS SCHOOL YARD SURVEY $ $ $
-1	I fell at work and sprang my ankle it started to swell up the next day im so glad my coworker told me to fill out a accident report I'm so glad my coworker did because i would not have gotten workers compation i started to recieve my money 2wks later I'm so glad I did 
-1	when it comes to labels, i am pretty aware of what to look for. i have been learning more and more what to look for and what is good and bad. i have kind of amazed myself with that aspect of health studd. 
-1	I don't recall an experiene in my life that demonstrated this but I do read articles on health that interest me and watch health shows on TV.
-1	A friend was having an asthma attack & didn't have an inhaler with them. I gave them coffee since the caffeine would help open the breathing passages
-1	Before I go to the doctor I usually know what's wrong with me. I try my best to read and get alto of knowledge on illness and conditions. As when I had arhtitis in my knee I knew I had arthritis before going to the doctor because of the symtopms I was having was arhtitis symptoms and I had enough knowledge on arhtitis to know the symptoms.
-1	I cannot recall an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. Maybe knowing when I have a sinus infection. 
1	It is hard for me to do this, I have only been hospitalized once and that was when I was four or five when I had my tonsils and adenoids removed.  Have had no broken bones or any thing other than a cold. 
1	When I had to switch doctors and explain my health issues, past testing, and treatment options.........
-1	My knowledge of medical or health issues are always present in my life when I feel pain in my body, I know I nee3d to either take a over the counter pain reliever and rest  also know that if I cut myself or start bleeding, I need a bandage.
-1	ive worked in hospitals ad clinics for up to 10 year and seen everything . im really good at my job. i love this job its very exciting for me
-1	i have worked in the medical industry for over ten years, so i feel i have the knowledge and training that i would understand the terms and the results....i am now retired, but still try to keep up with the knowledge base i have
1	I experienced emotional problems early in my life and was quite sure that the problem was of a brain chemical deficiency or that certain things were not sending enough of the correct messages, as in seratonin, which cabn be helped with certain anti depressant or related drugs. Some work some dont. I have been on 28 of them and 4 have worked for approx 5 months.
-1	Wind i was driving my car i had pain in my chest i though was gas but they keep coming so i want to the hospital and they side i was having a  attck
-1	I spent 6 weeks  recovering from heart surgery and was very patient and understanding with most of my nurses as I understood why they did the things they needed to do. I learned mostly by working with seniors and lots of reading.
1	I have fibromyalgia and chronic daily headaches as well as frequent migraines. I have been to many doctors - pain specialists, neurologists, etc. - as well as chiropractors
-1	I worked in a hospital for 37 years and was very familiar with medical documentation, test results, and terminology. I worked in medical records, radiology and as a unit secretary.
1	Ive never really had any really in depth health issues that have needed me to have a strong knowledge of health or medical issues. I take this as a good thing to be honest. 
-1	When my child was diagnosed with autism.  i had to ask questions, learn and research information to help him and my family
-1	When I was pregnant I was diagnosed with gestational diabetes, my doctor explained at what level it was. I went to a Nutritionist and got on a special diet and it helped a lot but I also had to give up a lot of food that I was used to eating. I took care of myself as well as my unborn child. 
-1	With my diabetes problems I have learned many things and I have learned to live with them. I have been very comfortable with my evolution.
-1	I was prescipted Tynonel with codiene after a dentist visit after my first dose, I noticed I was having trouble breathing and itching. I recgonized ab allegric reaction and went to the ER
-1	when i need emergency neck surgery. it ruined me for the rest of my life. i can't move around much or turn my head. it hurts everyday of my life and i am sure for the rest of my life it will be the same 
1	I had surgery to help GERD. I had to listen to the doctors explain the surgery and recovery. I had to follow instructions for recovery.
-1	i cant think of any. None i can actually think of . I dont know if any instances. None that i can think od
-1	Knowing that a certain type of chest pain is a sign of a heart attach. I had this pain 4 years ago and knew it was a heart attack and sought help at a hospital.
-1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy in 2011. I've endured five surgeries in 2001. Leaving me with menopause, limited mobility in certain life duties. Such as doing stressful, heavy weight work. Which in my mind I will but my body gives out. Hypertension makes the depression kick in. They give me pills for seizures and pain. However I can't afford them so I get generic and that does nothing. So when the pain is past 10 to the ER I go. I'm thankful I'm aware, but the prolonged pain while there is awful.
1	I broke my ankle last year when I was going down my outside steps.  I knew quickly it wasn't just a sprained ankle so as soon as I could I loosened the laces on my shoe because I could feel my foot swelling.  I found out I had broken both bones in my lower leg.
-1	I had problems with acne all my adult life and i tried a lot of different prescriptions and birth control and nothing worked so i found an herbal remedy on my own and works great.
-1	I was a nurse for 44,years in different settings. I have helped deliver babies and consoled families of dying elderly. I have alerted Drs many times of abnormal labs, pts declining and have seen positive outcomes from prompt, proper treatment.
1	Talking about my Tourette's Syndrome that I had heard that it can also affect my breathing or seeming to be stuffed up which explains why I seem congested often
-1	long time ago I told a co worker that she might have diabetes because of the symptons she was experiencing, she went to the doctor and was told she had diabetes.
1	I have numerous allergies and gastroenterology issues. I have to keep up with treatments and be aware of new ways to deal with my issues.
1	When I was 20 I had opitnuritus.  I was told that might be a precursor to MS.  I again had it at age 26 and 36.  At age 39 I was diagnosed with MS as result of a spinal tap as MRI's were not yet readily available.  No drugs were available.  When they were available 3-4 years later I had had no relapses so neurologist recommend no treatment as side effects were bad.  I have had only minimial direct symptoms in 33 years but many autoimmune disorders so I understand taking care of ones health, watching symptoms and being grateful for every day that one is in an upright postion and walking.
-1	being diagnosed with prostate cancer and having to choose the right treatment plan for me.  I had to choose between surgery knowing what the side effects or Radiation treatment knowing what the side effects could be.
1	my mother was a phlebotomist for many years. when i was younger, i was a vegetarian, and she was concerned about my blood levels.  she tested me frequently, mostly to check my iron levels.  over the years i've learned how to read blood test results and what the acceptable ranges are
-1	I had done some research about some symptoms that I was having. When I went to the doctor, I was able to express my concern and give in greater detail what I think it could be.
-1	I suffer from depression and anxiety. Both prescription medications have side effects. The Lamictal prescription is probably the one that has a major effect: rashes. My doctor told me about it. I read the instructions that came with it. I do not have rases.
-1	Well first of all I am terrible at math.  But I generally listen to learn about important things.  I GREW UP IN A HOUSE OF 5 DIEBETICS.
-1	I was a care giver for my sister and mother who both had breast cancer.  I also took care of myself after having breast cancer.
1	I haven't had to demonstrate my knowledge before.  THe worst thing that has happened was a deep cut that needed stitches or a sprained ankle 
-1	I have been a caregiver to family members and had tI attend dr visits with them and care for them. I am also trained annually in firstv aid and cpr
-1	I have type II diabetes.  After taking classes, I have learned how to control my blood sugar using diet and exercise.  I count carbs trying to have no more than 60 at each of three meals a day.  (Carbs-dietary fiber)  I also exercise by either hiking at the local park or walking the treadmill at the gym.  So far it is working.  My last A1C was 5.1 and my blood sugar rarely goes above 120
-1	I have had a few medical issues in the past and i also have an eye disorder. I am always doing research on what can help or hurt whatever is going on with my health. 
-1	I spoke to a PA about my high cholesterol.  I knew from past experience that I had particular side effects from many medications for high cholesterol.  I had researched the side effects of newer medications and was prepared to speak with her about the possibilities and help make a decision about which medication I should take.
-1	When my husband had a heart attack and I had to give him CPR until the paramedics arrived.  They told me that it saved his life.
1	When caring for my late parents and having one on one meetings with medical staff Understood prognosis,  treatment, restrictions,  etc.
1	I was told two years ago that I had monoclonal gammopathy - a blood disorder that could develop into multiple myeloma.  I listened to everything my oncologist said but I came home and spent days researching about it online.  I wanted to make sure that I had a complete understanding of what was going on.
-1	When I worked in a hospital I often demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues on a daily business. It was quite a lot of years ago so I don't really feel as confident about my skills as I used to be. 
1	I am a breast cancer survivor and my husband is liver transplant survivor so we are very experienced with medical issues
1	When told that I was borderline diabetic I understood that I would need to watch my diet and exercise or else eventually need daily shots and the possibility/ probability of losing legs, arms, and sight as various family members and friends had. 
-1	I had an abnormal Pap smear which taught me what I did not know about Pap smears and what the various results mean. I did not know that there were different levels of an abnormal Pap smear. This has helped me know that an abnormal result can have many reasons.
-1	I had an abnormal breast reading and as a result had to have a biopsy done, on one of my breasts. I was informed I had calcium deposits in the particular breast that had to be removed and sent to a pathologist to screen for cancer. The biopsy on the breast was uncomfortable, and painful. The waiting was the worst for the results. I had a result of benign , which was good
-1	I have had only good experiences with my health and had good people help me out over the years to know all about these experiences i went through.
-1	When I was diagnosed with scoliosis. I thought it occurred in school age children not adults. The doctor explained why I was having the back pain. The scoliosis ex ray showed the curve on my spine.
1	after a few years of being told I was a borderline diabetic, my dr said I was now diabetic. at that time I stopped eating sweets, stopped adding sugar to my coffee, in general began eating healthier, began exercising more, etc, and next check up my dr said there was no sign of diabetes.
1	 I developed a sore underneath my big toe which was originally treated as gout, but turned out to be PAD.  I had to have a bilateral femoral bypass, followed by carotid surgery.  I learned an awful lot about how your body works going through all of that in the last 3 months.
1	I receive my lab results via a health management site provided by my doctor and am able to read and interpret the info
-1	I think I did well, answered all the questions, I found the questionnaire entertaining. is a good exercise
-1	the experience that impacted my life to better health was having children it amde me want to make sure that i was healthy for them and to see them grow
-1	My husband had congestive heart failure and I had to take care of him for 4 years and learned everything I could about this disease. 
-1	I only get my knowledge about health care by looking and seeing what is out there I never trust a doctor
-1	I started hearing my heartbeat in my ears at night and new it was caused by high blood pressure. I went to the doctor to confirm this and sure enough  I had high blood pressure that required medication.
-1	can not think of any at this time. There are none that come to mind that i really want to share with any one at this time, or that i can remember
-1	I can't think of anything really. Perhaps when I had diabetes I took Metformin,  started a low carb lifestyle, a ate less. Because of the changes in my lifestyle, I cured my diabetes. I have kept my weight to within 5 pounds. I am not as strict as before, but check my weight every day at the gym. When it's higher than 143, I go stricter and it goes down, but anything unhealthy makes it go up--unfortunately. Also I eat lunch out with my gym friends every week day, an do try to eat healthy. And by the way, I am volunteering to tutor an 11 year old dyslexic boy who was illiterate 1 year and 4 months ago. He is now reading on a fifth grade level. The program is Barton and if you know a dyslexic child, see if it would be possible to get him/her into that program. I think Shriners has a program that is free.
-1	I am a nurse and take care of sick people with many different diagnosis every day. I also have had family members with health problems that I have had to help manage care
-1	I don't have a lot if any major or many personal health experiences.   I do understand is you eat or drink anything excessively your at risk of your health declining.  if you don't any form of exercise your at a health risk.  If your don't drink 80% of water your at health risk.
-1	I have questioned my doctor about dosage size.  He has agreed with me several times.  But my doctor encourages me rethink his suggestions.
-1	Throughout my years, i have tried to keep up with my health and makong sure i am fit. I have learned how to read blood pressure, the benefits of vitamins and even eating healthy. 
1	I keep track of all my Dad's medicines and side effects. I also track all our health conditions and try to find ways to cure them if possible.
-1	did   home  health care  for my mother until  she passed  away . Accompanied her  to the  doctor  and stayed  up with her findings
-1	I used to work at a hospital a nursing home and a pharmacy for many years in different departments. I also worked on a rescue squad 
1	I can predict what change my doctor is going to make in my antithyroid meds just by looking at my blood work labs.
-1	when someone diabetic needs insulin or more sugar to keep going every day in my life is a challenge no matter where i am or what i am doing
-1	My mom and dad lived with us several years.Dad did dialysis at home,mom took care of him.I went with them to doctor visits,hospital,etc.I learned alot from all they went through.Dad passed away a year ago.
1	I have had no experience in my life that has demonstrated my knowledge of any health or medical issues
-1	it seemed like basic math in a lot of the situations. Some of them were easy to figure out, the ones with the percentages were harder to figure out.
-1	"Since I have had so few medical issues, it is hard for me to actually demonstrate my knowledge of any health or medical issues.  I did have a mammogram and they said I had abnormal ""findings"" in my test.  Come to find out I had ""migrating"" lymph nodes - which I had never heard of."
-1	My daughter was diagnosed with a rare former of cancer.She needed lots of home care.The medical professionals taught me to do it all
1	I don't really know much about medical issues.  Usually I look things up or ask friends for their opinions.
1	In 2007, I was alone in my home when I felt an abnormal event in my chest. I went and laid down on my couch and had a heart attack. I called the local non-emergency number for an ambulance. The dispatcher rudely said the I have someone who thinks he's having a heart attack, which turned out to be accurate 5 minutes after the ambulance arrived.
1	I used to work for podiatrists in the past, so I have extensive knowledge about feet and their diseases.
1	My mother had a stroke and then a broken hip two years ago.  I have learned the signs of problems with UTI's - mood swings, odor, says strange things, sleeps a lot.  I have to immediately contact the doctor to have a test done so I can catch it early enough to keep her out of the hospital.
-1	I have been feeling great.And right now i dont have any problems with medical issuses. I have rods in back 
-1	i dont have any coment on this all ,y health isnt that bad so i dont have to understand this plus prayer works
-1	I went to medical assistant school. That helped me understand medical terminology a little better and symptoms of different diseases
-1	i do not have a lot of experience with health or medical issues because i have always been really healthy.
-1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge in health was in health class in school. Another experience was when I was at the doctor and I had a few questions answered.
-1	My uncle was having heart issues and I was able to help him and my aunt relax and make correct decisions before and after medical help arrived. 
-1	I am not going to keep on with this kind of survey, you ask too many stupid questions.  I have not had any experience in my like to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	I have very little knowledge about health issues so I'm very careful and stay healthy and eat right food and drink plenty water.
-1	I have no experience at all with knowledge of health and or medical issuesnor do I care to at this point in time.
-1	My mother was diagnosed with an Arnold Chari Malformation 1, and after having several doctors work with this, and she under went the brain surgery, and the original doctor visited her in rehab, he sat down in the room, and asked about the journey.  Even the nurses were shocked, as this was out of character for this doctor, and yet he stopped everything with an interest to learn more, and because I know the medical terms respected me enough to really listen to the story instead of only half listening to things.
-1	Several years ago I woke up with a severe pain in my back.  I had never had anything like that before but I suspected a kidney stone and when I got to the hospital I was right.
-1	After I was told I had seizures I just go to the doctors,  and let them tell me what I need to do. I try to do as they tell me but if I feel the medicastion is not working I call back and stop it
-1	I received an abnormal mammogram and had to have a biopsy done. I called to get a referral to a surgical oncologist 
-1	Actually going to the doctor's office and health science classes in schooling. Even though, I will admit that the majority of these questions were math related.
-1	when at the allergist i was  told that i could use a salt solution since i did not want to use something with medicine i told the allergist that i already knew about the saline solution
-1	With my daughter delivering her first child and encountered medical complications.  I was able to advise her on her medical journey to recovery.
-1	I know that the temperature of your body is about 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit.  I have had my temperature taken whenever I give blood and my body temperature goes down to 98.2 degrees many times.
-1	I know what I know because of being proactive regarding my lupus diagnosis. I can tell anyone all the types of lupus, what foods to eat and not to eat. What medications work. How to be mindful of flare ups.
-1	I have taken classes in CPR & First AID, a few nursing classes & trained as a home health aid. I have also taken classes towards cerification as an herbalist. I am quite interested in health, nutrition and natural healing options.
-1	Looking over some paperwork that my sister had, I had to explain everything to her so that she could understand. 
-1	When i went to the dr. For my test results and i had to figure out how to read the results and what they meant by things such as the ast or acl.
1	I had hepatitis C but didn't know it for about 18 years. I did a lot of research into symptoms and treatments. When I was treated, I researched the various medications and side effects, as well as the likelihood that the treatment would actually work.
-1	I only have heard of and taked aabout shimgle with family and friends but when my mother first showed me the rash  on her side and along  the nerves over rib cage I immediately know to take her to and clinic.
-1	I have to say when I was undergoing the asbominal ultrasound when they statred   spouting off internal organs they were viewing and the related pain it wasn't good. The phone was ringing 2 hours later with the nws of what i felt, a bad gallbladder
-1	 I'm not really sure I understand the question why Dr. explains medical documentation to me I also have other people that can help me when I'm unsure of my medical issues
-1	I was prescribed an antibiotic and after about a week my skin started itching and then broke open and oozed puss. It started on my hand and then covered my whole body. I was in the Dr.'s office every day for just shy of two (2) weeks. Since the Dr. didn't know what I had, I started researching and asking my nurse friends. One day I walked in and informed him I had Steven Johnson's Syndrome because he had prescribed a Novocain antibiotic and I'm allergic to Novocain.
1	I don't have any specific medical knowledge - I tend to use the internet to research issues so I can ask questions that might be relevant to my situation. 
-1	When my sister was in severe pain in her back and vomiting I asked her if she could be passing a kidney stone.  Sure enough when I took her to her doctor he said she was passing a kidney stone.
-1	I was at my mother's house on my birthday when she called for help because there was something wrong with my grandmother (who lived with my parents). My mom thought she had slipped into another sugar coma but I recognized the signs as that of a stroke. When the emt's arrived, they confirmed she was having a stroke. 
-1	My friend bump his real hard against the wall which he had a slight concussion I gave him Motrin every 6-8 hours well he went to the hospital and what I was already doing they told him to do
-1	I have extensive knowledge of health or medical issues. I have two years of health and medical issues.
-1	aFib, irregular heart beat, doctor prescribed appropriate medication that has the aFib condition under control  
-1	It is ideal to have regular check-ups on those type of illnesses and know understand your heart rate-per-minute, abnormal pains or sickness associated with either new recommended pills or mammograms.  b
-1	AT MY AGE OF 70, AFTER HAVING A FAMILY, THREE CHILDREN, CARE TAKING OF A MOTHER AND TWO GRANDMOTHERS, ONE COMES ACROSS A LOT OF MEDICAL RESPONSIBILITITES THAT NEED TO BE SORTED OUT FOR THE BEST DECISIONS.
-1	I learn as I go. Beginning with a serious car wreck where both of my legs were broken. I learned that bone actually can grow back. 
1	I have children so I have to be able to effectively diagnose simple illnesses and decide when to go to the doctor quite often. 
1	My dad couldn't figure out a chronic pain he was experiencing, but continued to do the type of work that was causing stress in the first place (later he was diagnosed with a hernia), however, he revealed to me that he had blacked out at one point and his bladder emptied.  So with that information the weakened area was allowing the bladder to slip through.  He had a successful hernia repair.
-1	My mother who had breast cancer I learned somethings like blood counts,cells ..what can affect it.chemo plus meds and her pain levels
1	I read online ans have found ways to improve my health through diet and exercise. I have also researched various medications to determine what the potential risks are involved
-1	I have only academic knowledge of these issues because I don't have to interact with doctors very often. My knowledge is based on my education from school. In school, I took biology, and anatomy to gain most of my medical knowledge.
1	I was stung by a wasp and started to get itchy, swelling, have trouble breathing, and my ears became hot
-1	that i follow what i need to better my health. and to try to get off medication that i am currently taking. 
-1	I demonstrate it every day. I have to diabetic patients with whom I have to check blood sugar and monitor glucose levels. I also have to wellness check all patients each day and sooth fears when they are not feeling up to par. When they're sick it's my job to make sure they don't need hospital intervention, I'm also CPR and first aide certified so for them I am the first responder
1	A person I knew had surgery and antibiotics afterwards and ended up having intestinal distress. I told them to contact their doctor about the antibiotics disturbing the biome of their intestinal tract. The doctor adjusted their antibiotic and the distress eased.
-1	First off if I flunk this survey it is because I hate math and am not good at it!  I have had several medical experiences in my life. I have a friend who takes a blood pressure medicine depending upon what his BP is. If the systolic is below 100 or the heart rate is below 60 the medicine is held. If I took his BP and it was 120/85 and the heart rate was 85 I would give him his medicine, if it was 98/60 HR was 55 I would hold the medicine. 
-1	Because of my disease, friends often ask questions that I am able to answer because of what I have learned. A college engineering teacher was very interested in what I was telling him. His wife was bored.
-1	i do not have any of that.i get check out all the time.so i just have cad that is all.do well just liver your laft the best you can....
-1	As I said, I worked in the legal side of medical issues for 35 years.  However, I know more medical terminology than the average joe, but my knowledge working with percentages is not good, and I think this survey dealt more with that.  Felt more like a entrance exam than a survey.
-1	my first mammogram i had couldn't find anything. i went back because of pain in my left boob and found 3 lumps and one was the size of a quarter
-1	There is really no way  I could pick an experience  in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues. The knowledge I have is a result on many different experiences over a period of 30+ years.
-1	A student in my class was exhibiting some signs of low blood sugar. I recognized this from taking care of my mother who is also diabetic. The student was tested and was diagnosed as type II diabetes.
1	I was prescribed a drug that I found out on my own initiative could have renal side-effects.  When I discovered my blood test for kidney function had worsened, I was able to have the medication discontinued.
-1	not sure if felt like i did ok on these, hate math questions. I think these are to complicated and people will not want to fiqure out if anything is wrong with them
-1	after begining in the hospital so many times and have to figure out how to on my own and practing on my own
1	don't really think that i have had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health/medical issues.
-1	I thought I had diabetes before my doctor told me by what I was told. Thirst hunger blurry eyes weight loss
-1	A man in Oklahoma contacted me He had blood poisoning.A bacterial condishion that could have resulted in death without treatment.I sent him materials to draw out the infective agents.He was injured in a bicycle accident.The instruction I gave him were followed He recoverd and called to thank me and called me doctor.He is now beginning to develope gray hair.Not to bad I would think even if I must say so. 
-1	"When the government inverted the food pyramid in the early 1990s, I told my children to ignore it. Replacing proteins, fats, etc with carbohydrates would create US epidemics of diabetes and obesity in the US -- it has. 75% of the brain is myelin, myelin is 100% cholesterol. Statin drugs inhibit liver production of cholesterol, creating our epidemic of Swiss cheese-brained cadavers from Alzheimer's disease. A 6.4 cent 100 mcg vitamin K tablet - size of saccharin tablet - prevents required blood serum calcium and blood  serum cholesterol from bonding at the molecular level into vessel plaque. When I had to tell a doctor that I had a strep throat, he took a culture, then didn't know what to prescribe because I'm allergic to penicillin. His PDR was no help to him, and he finally asked me what was usually prescribed for me, and wrote the prescription after again checking the PDR for correct dosage by weight, after asking me my weight. I was 20 at the time. Want more? Despite foreknowledge of both grandmothers dying of uterine hemorrhage and special care being taken for my first two deliveries, I suffered a uterine hemorrhage with my third child and ""died"" and I'm here only because I responded positively to resuscitation. Further idiocy? Second hand smoke was disproved in 1999, but they keep beating that dead horse. I smoked a pack of Marlboro reds throughout all three pregnancies, and gave birth to healthy, perfect, over 8 pound babies, a girl and two boys. Start looking for the correct reasons -- like minerals missing from the diet because they're never replaced in arable soil -- for birth defects."
-1	THIS SURVEY IS REALLY STARTING TO PISS ME OFF. SERIOUSLY! WHAT TYPE OF QUESTIONS ARE THESE.TAKE THESE 100 CHARACTERS AND SHOVE THEM! WITH A CHERRY ON TOP.
1	A family member was told he had possible beginning of heart failure.  I read as much as possible as I could and as soon as I sure leg sweeling, I made sure he went to doctor who added 2 water pills to regimen.
-1	my experiences with plecentsprevia was nothing and it was very devistating when baby was born and was jaundised ,and had purple hands and feet.  this was many years ago now the medical world does not let this happen.  baby was ok, but preme 
-1	This survey is getting monotonous. I recently was told that the pain in my low back is from scoliosis
1	I have Crohn's Disease and have to manage this chronic condition with medication and regular colonoscopies. I've been in remission for over 20 years. 
-1	My daughter broke her arm and I had to keep her calm and get her to the hospital  to get it set. Keeping her calm was a big thing.
1	When i was able to help urge someone I know to get checked for minieres disease based on my symptoms. They went and were diagnosed and have been taking steps to deal with it.
1	When I became sick with a chronic illness, I had to step up to the plate and become knowledgeable about my illness and advocate for myself with my community and with doctors. 
-1	I have very little knowledge and interest in medical interest.  I was a camp counselor when I was in college and would tend to basic scratches and scrapes on a daily basis. 
1	There really isn't one.  I have helped a family member deal with an extremely serious health issue. For every issue and every medical concern there are lots of details to read through.
-1	None I can think of at the moment. I am pretty much a healthy person with hardly any health issues. I have to type something else because the survey requires it. I really do not have anything else to say on this question. I would like to move on the rest of the survey now. Thank you!
-1	I have not had many health issues in the past. I do know that when a doctor explains something to me and I'm not totally sure about something I will ask questions.
1	My friend kept telling me she was having trouble breathing, short of breath, frequently, for no apparent reason, not just when exercising or working. I told her she needs to see a doctor. She had heart problems..
1	I have had experience when I have been diagnosed with medical conditions because I research them and ask questions.
-1	When I was told I had diabetes.It changed my whole world upside down when I found out.I have so many times where I feel so bad I just want to sleep and not get out of bed.
1	I get kidney stones sometimes. Kidney stones start in the kidneys and are passed through your urine.
-1	I would say my whole life has been dependent on my knowledge as I am a 32+ year transplant recipient, having managed my well being thus far.  
-1	I do not know medical terminology at all and have no interest in medical terminology, I only understand plain English without the medical jargon.
-1	My friend described to me their pain and how it radiated from their backs to chest and arm would go numb, and from my own previous experience, i told them it was a gallbladder attack and to immediately get checked. they had it removed that week. 
-1	Had to have two knee replacements.  Went to a class for information.  Asked lots of questions and did a lot of research on the internet.  Especially from actual patients who went through the operations.
-1	Recently my husband was in the hospital and I had to talk to many different doctors specialists and nurses
-1	I try really hard to eat right, exercie, meal prep, and read the labels on what I eat on a daily basis. I use a fitness tracker and Myfitness Pal.com on my phone to keep up with what I eat and my weight. It has paid off so far and the doctors tell me so when I visit.
-1	I dont have any. This survey asks questions aobut health and I have no idea about osme of the answers
-1	Honestly, it was when my brother sliced his leg open and I knew to find the arteries and put pressure on them so he didn't bleed out
1	caring for family members who have had medical treatment and require follow-up care.  Analyzing and understanding instructions and recognizing symptom,s, etc.
-1	taking care of both my father and mother in health care aspects and everyday activities to maintain their lifestyle and taking them to all dr. appointments
1	I was able to give advice to a friend who struggles with anxiety and depression like I do. I was able to recommend a medicine that I had used, and to motivate him to call a doctor.
1	After breast cancer I was told that if I had radiation chances of return were about 10% but if I had both chemo and radiation Chances were about 2%---I had both
-1	i cannot think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	family in health coverage needing medical attention with clinic or hospitalto  needs free or reduced to help low income families
-1	High blood pressure, high cholesterol,  open heart surgery,  broken bones, obesity. All of these things give me experience,  none of which is reflected in a statistical analysis.
1	I do not have any experience like that, therefore I am unable to write anything.  Any knowledge of medical issues I have were gleaned from what I have read.
-1	I checked myself into the hospital after having a bus accident and I was diagnosed with pneumonia, type 2 diabetes and high cholesterol.
-1	When I was sick over the summer I started doing research on the symptoms. I started looking up articles to determine what I may have.
-1	i am not a doctor and have no medical expertise to diagnose an illness. i trust my doctor to do that. 
-1	Just normal going to the doctors for check ups, reading up on conditions, paying attention to what my doctors are telling me.
-1	The classes I am currently taking for my degree in a medical field have increased my knowledge of health and medical issues 
-1	I can not pin point an experience to shows my knowledge of my issues. I just feel that I have a pretty good history. I haven't been to the hospital often. So therefore I don't really have any experiences to go off of.
-1	I knew that I had something seriously wrong with my back, even after initial tests showed nothing. Later, an MRI showed that I had a slipped disc.
-1	I am a security guard as my job and there have been times where I had had to access our first aid kit in our security office and find a supply to give to an employee to help them.
-1	When I got sick and I had to go to 2 different hospitals and then was diagnosed with an illness. Then when I started research on my illness and seeing doctor I was able to understand more.
-1	I am a former EMT-B.   This has helped me more easily understand the diabetes diagnosis I have been given.   I already know what normal and abnormal blood sugar levels are, and what the signs of high and low blood sugar levels look like in the person experiencing a medical crisis.
-1	When the pap text came back abnormal. I started to do some research concerning the issue which allow me to gain the knowledge.
1	I had a hysterectomy. The doctor wanted to start me on estrogen right away. Going through information I found my problem was my body produced to much estrogen already. I read and consulted. Decided on a different way and has worked fine.
1	I have a friend who has experienced severe tiredness and short of breath but he refuses to go see a doctor.  I have advised him that he has a serious health problem and that he needs to be tested to see what is wrong.
-1	I've never really had health issues that really life threatening. I've had a colonoscopy to see what was wrong with my insides. Back in high school I was bleeding from my anal area so they did the procedure and didn't find nothing life threatening. Other then that I've only had sticthces and a few tweaked ankles and knees. 
-1	Twice I had blood in my stool. The second time I new to go to the ER right a way, not to the doctors office
-1	i really dont have anything that i know of so i dont have anything to write about i knew what a csection was and knew what was going to happen when i had one
1	Today my dad received a call from his cousin that her husband was going to have surgery tomorrow for a brain tumor discovered after he had a seizure.  I explained to my parents that brain tumors are often not discovered until after a person has had a seizure.
-1	My daughter was critically ill with meningo- encephalitis 10 years ago. As a healthcare worker, I did not routinely believe everything that a doctor said, and did research on my own to help determine the cause of the condition
-1	I have had many experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues because I am an RN. The memory that stands out the most is when my cousin told me she urinates frequently in large amounts and was constantly thirsty. I told her those were signs & symptoms of diabetes. Shortly after that she was told she was diabetic. 
-1	Feeling different feelings in my body that I know is wrong. Sometimes I know when something is wrong with me and sometimes I don't.
-1	when ever my little sister has a cold, i take care of her. i make sure she takes the proper natural forms of medicine so that she does not experience drowsiness during the day. i usually have her drinking green tea, vitamin c tablets and ginger
-1	I have good health except for the two back surgeries that I had. But at the end of the day I am doing fine and I have learned a lot about my health from my primary doctor and my survey doctors.
-1	The process of my surgery and how long it take me to recover the pain I experience was so much that I don't even understand what is going on 
-1	Well I have eczema and it's very irritating. If I stress too badly I will break out. If I sweat badly I will break out. Not fun
-1	My hysterectomy showed me how LITTLE I knew about them.  Had I did more reading, maybe I would still have my uterus and I wouldn't be bald. I trusted the doctor as my only solution.  I should've suspected something when the consent form said optional surgery.
-1	My health issues have always been good for my age so far. My doctor havent told me yet that i have any problems so far that my health is good.
-1	my experience is that i have been able to apply knowledge on basic issue and processes about health related matters
-1	I recently had a urinary tract infection. Because I had one in the past, I knew what to expect and I knew I had to go to a doctor right away to get a prescription. I also knew because of my difficulty swallowing pills that I would be able to have medication that I could crush. 
1	My friend has a daughter who had a seizure. I was able to use my own condition and knowledge of seizure procedure and risks to help them be calm, and know what to do in the future.
-1	Didn't have any situation to demonstrate my knowledge of medical issues so I couldn't explain something that I didn't experience 
-1	I enjoy CPR classes because they allow me to use my basic science knowledge in a more practical environment.
1	My grand mother was not feeling well and she was always tired and the doctor she had told her she was just run down. I thought it was more than that and I took her for a second opinion and she had Luekemia.
-1	I went to the emergency room and told the doctor about my pain. They wanted to give me certain medicine that I knew was not good for me.
-1	I had knowledge of my health issues back in 2011. I did research on polysystic cysts after the doctor informed me there was a possibility of me having them. I went to the doctor the next time knowing what to expect
1	My dad was having lower back pain for about a week. He is a gym instructor, so he goes regularly, but i noticed he doesn't strecth like he should prior to beginning workouts. So i asked him if he was flexible in his hips, hamstrings, and IT bands since they can cause lower back pain if non-flexible muscle tissue is too tight. He started stretching those areas everyday and the pain eventually decreased and then went away entirely. 
-1	A friend was taking blood thinners and she had a very bad headache. I advised her again taking aspirin but to call her doctor and her doctor told her that was the best advice I could have given her. 
-1	I have knowledge of heath and appreciate a doctor's input on correcting the problems and issue to make my health better.
-1	I started to pursue nursing for awhileand have a very little but of medical knowledge but most comes from having axe with alot of the girls at the school who actually did the work and would talk about it when I was at their various houses 
-1	Recently had foot surgery to remove a damaged nerve. Had painful cortisone shots for 3 years prior to surgery
-1	After I delivered my youngest child, the doctors noticed that my heart was racing. I had to get an ultrasound on my heart to make sure there wasn't anything wrong. Thankfully it wasn't. It was scary at the time.
-1	When I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia I had to learn what things to do and things not to do to help me feel better in my everyday life
-1	I've had to explain depression to my friends frequently, and have taught many of them (even those who have depression) a lot about the condition.
-1	In November of 2007 I had a heart attack and had to have triple-bypass surgery as a result.  My doctor explained, in terms I could understand, exactly what was going to be done.
-1	As I get illnesses I learn more and more about the solutions to getting well. This goes for family members and my children as well. I get information from the doctor, pediatrician, nurses and I do thorough Internet searches. 
-1	I went to the hospital and underwent extensive testing and treatment for respiratory failure and understood what the doctor and medical staff were telling me
-1	I have never had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I am obese, but I am dealing with it. I do not have experiences that I can talk about it. 
-1	My experience in life includes my older father and mother who take several visits to the doctor and seceral prescriptions.  They still try to watch their diet and exercise to maintain a healthy weight.
1	I'm a hospital pharmacist with a doctoral degree. Although I'm in management, I precept students and I train Pharmacists in clinical areas such as kinetics, antimicrobial stewardship, etc. 
-1	I was diagnosed with Hep C. I learned all I could about the disease and was treated for it with interferon and ribavirin for a whole year. My viral load was reduced to undetectable and I was deemed cured. It has been over ten years now.
-1	Whem I got a cold, I went to the convnience  store for medicine to treat it instead of going to the doctor. 
-1	Finding out I was pregnant before taking a test is example of me being knowledgeable of my health. I was able to recognize the signs.
-1	I'm am aware and know a little about medical issue due to pamphlets. Also from infinitive doctors and televised programs
-1	My Oldest daughter had asthma , the peramedics kept telling me she wasn't , but with my history of asthma and little of medical knowledge , I was able to keep her stable long enough to get her to the er
-1	I was able to correctly identify the type of headaches I was having before my appointment with y doctor.
-1	IF YOU KNOW YOU ARE DIABETIC, YOU CHECK YOU BLOOD SUGAR EVERY DAY TO MAKE SURE THE SUGAR IT NOT TOO HHIGHT OR TOO LOW
-1	I have had many health issues.  Two months ago I had a Para-esophageal hernia repair, which was successful.  I was having constant heartburn, shortness of breath, plus numerous of other issues.  Since my surgery my health is improving, but I am dealing with a lot of fatigue.  My health issues have given me the opportunity to research into my health problems more thoroughly and learn about my body.
-1	When I'm feeling sick with a similar symptom that l had in the past I know exactly what it is my knowledge from the doctors.
-1	I don't have an experience that I can recall where I had to demonstrate a knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	Once i had a fever that went up over a period of 5 days. It started at 99 snd went to 10 3. At the temp of 103 i went to the e.r.
-1	I have several years of college, and I've concentrated on medical specialties, medical office practices and medical terminology.
-1	I have not had any situations when i was not knowledgeable.  I will all was ask questions until i feel comfortable about the ussues.
1	a couple of years ago, I felt my some numbness in my fingers and tongue.  I searched online, suspecting a stroke.  I called my doctor who confirms my suspicions and I was ruched to the ER.
-1	I took it upon my self to research & find out how to deal with my allergies!! After experimenting with different drugs, I found what works for me!!
-1	I had a mammogram and followed up with an ultrasound and biopsy.  I knew what the procedure entailed what to expect and how to follow up with future visits 
-1	I recently had to correct a medical person about the proper way to pronounce a certain medicine I was on
-1	Experience has helped me with my knowledge of health and medical issues. I try to keep myself informed but am not afraid to ask questions to get me by
-1	When I was diagnosed of abnormal pap smear and that I also had abnormal growth. I was scheduled to have a procedure to remove the growth. With the research I did, I declined the procedure and to my credit, two colposcopies later, I was cleared.
-1	There hasn't been any times that I have had to demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	An experience that I have often is that I often get physicals for sports and because of this I believe I know enough basics health information to make appropriate health decisions...
-1	I was recently diagnosed with prostate cancer. From the correspondence and doctor's explanation, I was able to determine what would be the best plan for me and my recovery.
-1	I expericed terrible health issue for years. Doctors themselves couldn't figure out. I used as much info as I could including getting infor from natural doctors and sloved my own problem. I am almost healed from my problems. Its been a year!!!! 
1	When I wa getting a check up my doctor noticed that I had an irregular heartbeat so I had to get an EKG to make sure that nothing was wrong or that I would pass out when playing sports.
-1	The only experience I have is given birth to my children and having regular health check ups. I have also had to deal with common illnesses like the flu and multiple occassions.
-1	I read a lot but not a lot of health literature. I had my gall bladder removed. I wished I had learned more about removal of tbis organ
-1	When I went to the allergy doctor for a check up and found out both side of my nose was blocked and need surgery fast to open up my air ways.
-1	I attend nursing classes in high school and scored a 4.0 grade took it in 9th and 10th grade so I feel that I have knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	Oh my God what kind of survey questions are these I'm having an headace oh my word I don't know the answer to these questions 
1	Whenever I have to take my grandmother's blood sugar on a daily basis. It's good to know what normal levels are for a diabetic
-1	I studed biology after my mom had brest cancer and the unit on cancer I was able to use my own knowledge of the disease 
1	I cut my finger deeply and the bleeding was in spurts at the rate of my heartbeat. I used a large rubber band to wrap tightly around my finger, above the cut, to stop the bleeding. I then went, immediately, to hospital emergency room.
-1	While lifting weights at the gym I pulled a muscle in my upper arm. While waiting on it to heal my shoulder froze up. At this point I have what is called frozen shoulder. I had to be put to sleep so the doctor can move my arm around, it was to painful to do when I was up.
-1	I was told I had a heart murmur by my primary care physician and I was surprised.i been going by to the doctor all my life and just found out in my 20's I have a heart murmur
-1	I learned a lot about good health from reading medical books and researching online and look at some medical shows
-1	Getting tested for sickness. Or depression , it really is a serious matter in life and also kills. Its best to get it taken care of before matters get worse 
-1	i remember the time that i had a panic attack it was really bad it hurt a lot. it did not last too long i am happy that i felt better later. n/a
-1	I have had multiple premature births. Due to me being born premature and had my first child early I am prone to deliveringmy child premature.
-1	I can do math, I have family members that have medical issues and health problems, my sister is a doctor.
-1	I have and suffer with high boold pressure. i am told to watch my cholesterol level and reduce the risk.
-1	I have been through and I am still going through with my health and Medical issues. And through it all I was told couldn't have kids. I have 1 and another on the way 
-1	Taking care of sick family members and also dealing with child birth and toddlers has helped me learn a bit about it
-1	I was tested for my iron level while pregnant and it came back 10.7. Pregnant women iron level is suppose to be at a 12
-1	when my grandmother was sick and fell to he floor i was the only one in the house strong enough to pick her up and carry her.  that was years ago but ill never forget the experience 
-1	I have a hole in my heart and a leak in my valve but I never played attention to statistics or what a paper might say. I just love my life however I want to
-1	Being able to read prescription. And being told by someone I accomplished to the hospital and the doctors used the term still birth and I knew what they were actually talking about 
-1	When my mother had kidney failure, it taught me about eating less processed foods and how to eat better for better health
-1	I am very knowable about asthma. However i am horrible with knowing the numbers for high blood pressure 
-1	i had a headache was experiencing aura with my vision and nausea and vomiting. New it was a migraine. 
-1	I have experience with the medical field. I find it very interested that so many of us can even acknowledge that we understand.
1	I routinely go get an annual exam. Additionally my mother has educated me on certain health topics over the years.
-1	Whenever I go to the doctor. I guess it shows that I usually have no clue until i check with the internet to make sure. I think the internet is a good source to reveal lots of information regarding medical and health issues and it definitely provides lots of information for me to learn about them.
-1	Taking and understanding my blood sugar reading.  When to take and in what amount to take my insulin.
1	My mom once got a prescription and, upon reading the drug information I found that it contained an important warning for diabetic patients. So, I stopped her from taking it, and returned it to the pharmacist.
-1	I think with a parent & those who were active in child's life. Who know the importance of well-being & health. Family health being of disease control & the spreading diseases among family members. When, reading (also when in school being taught health & personal hygiene beginning in about 3rd grade latter in 7th & 8th grade) about disease in science or an article about prevention. Child Health Care in public schools, public health & the controlling & spreading what I is communicable & preventive. I also being told early in public school what is preventable & contagious (pink eye) also I am in an age group when shots were given in school to prevent polio, public concerned about smallpox, etc.. I given several things to extend life & prevent disease, including the home (impetigo infectious pusules, etc).
-1	I had the experience of finding out from my physician that I had Type 2 diabetes.  I had knowledge of the disease because I had realities with the same diagnosis 
-1	Well I have very bad eye sight and so any time I go to my eye doctor that always check the back of my eye and my pressure point to see if I have any disease. Also glycoma may run in my family so that is another reason why I get checked 
-1	when i was diagnosed with fibroid and tumor and had to undergo surgery and since that day my life has taken a dramatic change
-1	I have been a nurse for 25 years, caring for patients with medical and surgical problems, postpartum women, newborn babies , 
-1	I was diagnosed with cancer on the thryoid.  The only real way to tell the doctor had to remove my left thryoid.  The thryoid was removed but no cancer was there, but I was left with one thryoid.
-1	a pap smear showed cells that could eventually be cancerous.  Based on what I had learned from a previous doctor, I asked the doctor to freeze the cells so that they would not continue to grow and spread. The doctor agreed.
-1	My experience in my life was when my grandmother became ill with dementia. It was very eye opening and hard for our family, but it also educated us in many ways. 
-1	I'm Not always accurate on medical information provided. I didn't go to medical school, this is more of reducing health risks on health.
-1	Please help you guys talk too much and ask a lot of boring questions like change your surgery formaf
-1	I have learned in science classes while in school. Biology has always interested me since it is the life we live everyday and we get to learn more about ourselves and others around us.
-1	Once I had strep throat and I knew because of my symptoms and I used Google to compare and I went to the doctor without saying anything and they diagnosed me with it 
-1	By going to doctors and dentist regularly and knowing about eating healthy and exercise.  Taking  medicine and learning more 
-1	I had to take the hardship of learning about my knowledge of health or medical issues through college. I actually failed because the nursing instructors were too critical about me and said that I had a learning disability, which I didn't. I was just not interested, although I was going through stress and confusion as well as depression going to classrooms to practice LPN under prejudice nurses.
-1	I had pneumonia twice when I was a child so when my grandmother started showing signs of pneumonia, I immediately took her to the hospital. 
-1	The doctor gave me a prescription  I was able to read the bottle with how medications to take when to take when refill where to get it 
-1	 Well sometimes I have a groin problem when I lift my leg my groin will click or pop some say.  When it happens I have to do the certain stretches that my chiropractor told me about so I really don't have to tell them about the problem because I already know how to get rid of it. So this is an experience that demonstrates my knowledge of a health problem 
-1	I knew I had PCOS before I was diagnosed. I had come across many women who had similar symptoms to mine so I figured that I had the same condition. I had always known something was off with my body and hormones 
-1	I had an illness in which symptoms I was familiar with. I used my knowledge of this illness & my familiarity to diagnose myself any get rid of that illness.
-1	A few years back, I had one microscopic surgery on my left shoulder, and later two surgeries on my right shoulder...both due to on the job injuries. Thanks in big part to the doctor/surgeon involved I gained great knowledge of my condition and why.
-1	When I got hit by a car and had to take all kind of exams is when I experience in your life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	I don't profess to have extensive medical knowledge. I think I simply have the aptitude and an ability to reason that helps me in understanding medical issues that are explained to me or that I have researched. 
-1	I  have Copd,peripheral nerve damage, siatic nerve damage, high blood pressure, high cholesterol. I  have been seeing a doctor regularly for over 6 years,  about 3 to 4 times a year. 
-1	I have no idea about certain ones but I tired. I really would love up find out how it works though. Thank you for this survey 
-1	When my mom was battling cancer I had to ask questions and administr meds to her looking up as much info as I could
-1	I do not have extensive medical knowledge. I read books.i don't go to the doctor much. I do not have any examples
-1	I like to read so any tutoring I came do I will do so in my spare time I always like to stay prepared for the most part 
-1	Knowing is important to me my health is extremely important I don't take it for granted at all my life and future depend solely on how I take my health 
-1	I dont know anything about doctor things. i just try to live as long as possible and make the right decisions. 
1	When I found out about my thyroid problem (hypothyroidism), I did a little reading and found out that a chemical imbalance is what was the cause. And that the thyroid gland acts somewhat like an alternator on a car. It secrets hormones to various parts of the body to maintain a stable metabolism. 
-1	Everyone in my family suffers from depression.  So do I.  I knew something other than medicine could be done for it because medicine did not work.  Long story short, Dr stopped at maybe a thyroid disease.  I kept researching.  The real problem autoimmune disease.  We all lived with a large exposure of DDT.  It depleted our minerals and left us full of heavy metals.  I t caused us to display  many different behavior disorders.  Now our whole family can heal.
-1	My grandmother saw an ENT and was diagnosed with a few things. I read the doctors report and broke the report down to my grandmother in terms she could understand. 
-1	I went to school to be a Massage therapist, so I still remember some muscles. When I was diagnosed with costochrondritis, I knew to stretch,exercise, and to do less lifting. I still also read medical books.
-1	I was a certified nursing assistant for almost fifteen years. I also so have five children two of which have medical issues. I have also been responsible for the care of my parents who also have a great deal of medical issues.
-1	when my son hadd a lumpin his neck i understood what the possibilties could be and knew the signs and did thorough research before hand
-1	i have not had a experience in my life to where i can answer this question any kind of way.this is something major in life
-1	There is no or have not been any experience in my life  that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issue 
-1	I dont have much experience of health or medical issues. I just research different symptoms online or go to the doctor.
-1	I took my mum to the emergency care and the things they talked about and do there for me to say wow this is incredible 
-1	Temperature of 100.4 with child and coughing, took to er, stay all day, was admitted came out with instructions that had to be followed with no errors 
-1	WHen I had a hemorrhoidectomy, I didn't understand how they occurred until I spoke with the doctor.  Know I have the information needed to help prevent it from occurring again.
1	An old childhood friend gashed her leg open to where you could see the bone and muscle and I had to cut off the blood flow to that area and clean the wound 
-1	I don't have any experience with heath or medical issues. If I have a problem I google it or ask my doctor. I have now knowledge of this at all
1	We as women know that if you ever had a yeast infection you will automatically know  you have one when you have the symptoms.   So instead of wasting the time, gas to to go see the doctor and wasting the doctor's time;  we can go to a regular grocery or drug store to purchase a kit for yeast infections and treat it ourselves.
-1	I've actually increased the knowledge of my health within the past 6/7 years because I was diagnosed with an auto immune disease. So therefore I try to be more knowledgeable of my health.
-1	I have some experience, but I'm at that age where I'm taking control of my health for myself instead of my parents coercing me to go to the doctor. 
-1	a experince in my life is that i once was really sick and i went to the doctor they did a cat scan and found out that i had appendicitis and its was gain green.
-1	It is difficult to understand about my knowledge of health and medical issues and and I did what I can answer and answer in the best of my abilities and so far I did so good
-1	i really dont have that kind of experience with that lind if scenario you just have to live the best way you know how and hope for the best and hope your best is good enough 
-1	There is no experience I can remember in my life.Although I had heavy bleeding, which led you outpatient surgery because of fibroids.
-1	When I was pregnant with my second youngest daughter and I had to have a amniocentesis done. I knew what the problem was.
-1	I had cold hands and feet. I was told to take iron pills, so I took them. My doctor later said my iron was at a normal level. 
-1	I never really had an experience yet like that . only for school like a test or an exam. I couldn't really say if i would have anything. Maybe when my doctor told me i was almost near over weight when i was a teenager. I told them what  i have do to so  would be at the level for that.
-1	When i got pregnant with my daughter and my water broke i knew it was time for me to get to the doctor because i knew the time was near for me to start going into labor 
1	When doing my job,  I have to be able to identify the different types of ob gyn procedures for medical billing
1	My dad used to work for a pharmaceutical company and we had interactions with doctors regularly. That helps with some basic medical knowledge.
1	I took nursing classes in college and received my certification license and graduated at the top of my class. I took my clinical training and passed that as well.
-1	When reading my prescription which said to take every 8 hours for 8 days. I knew I took the meds 3 times a day. Every 8 hours for 8 days
-1	i have not had any experience as such so I may not be able to tell that story but one day J do hope to have a memory of that
-1	I was recently diagnosed with high blood pressure. My doctor discuss the reasons why I had it and what can be done to rectify the situation. Prior to that date, I had a feeling something wasn't right so I looked up possible solutions. I knew want I needed to do.
-1	when i have health issues i look them up online or watch dr oz to get some information on the issue thats all i have to say
-1	I have three children and I've made a few trips to the doctor and emergency room a few times over the years
-1	I have sleep apnea so had to go through a sleep study to get through it. I was diagnosed the next day and prescribed a cpap machine.
1	I watch a lot of greys anatomy which sounds dumb but has come in handy several times in my life when hearing symptoms and encouragement to others to seek treatment 
-1	that your health is nothing to play with if you have health problems its best to get to the doctors before things get worse and before anymore problems start
-1	i just recently had a mammogram an it was normal and i was happy with the report. i was very knowledgeable about the reults
-1	Back in 2009, I was getting dizzy spells where the room would just spin and spin all around me without any warning. After I had collapsed to the floor, an ambulance had arrived where I was taking to the hospital and it was there that the good doctor had diagnosed me with having vertigo. Since then, I've been managing it by taking medication. And though from time to time I may still receive slight moments of blurred vision & the occasional dizzy spell, I'm still managing and doing a whole lot better today, than I did 5, 10 years ago.
-1	I was a clinical specialist in the Army. I had worked at numerous Military hospital in my career.  I have taken care of many injured soldiers. 
1	I had to explain some medical terminology and procedures to my sister when she was in the ER. That helped her calm down. 
-1	When I graduated and started to go to school in the nursing field That's when I started to gain knowledge
-1	When I first took a certain vaccine, I got sick every three months so the second month that I went in for the same thing, I was able to save myself and the physicians a lot of time by telling them exactly what my symptoms were
-1	i dont know, i guess when i saw people getting sick in hospitals and not knowing why they were grttinh sivk
-1	HAVING GONE THROUGH MEDICAL SCHOOL IN NURSING AND WORKING WITH PATIENTS OF VARIOUS MEDICAL HISTORY AND BEEN MYSELF A PATIENT RIGHT NOW AND FOR SOME TIME HAVE INDEED EQUIPED ME WITH THE KNOWLEDGE  ON MOST MEDICAL ISSUES.
-1	I had an issue where I almost had lung Cancer but my doctors gave me Medicare and help me out so much iam grateful for the situation I go there
-1	I correctly diagnosed myself to have trigeminal neuralgia. But my doctor at the time wouldn't listen.  I not only had to take tests (dentist, pinched nerve, etc.), but the testing delayed my getting the meds I needed to deal with the pain. 
-1	Going to the doctor is one thing that helped me understand health and medical issues. The second thing is my old health class from high school.
1	I fractured my humorous in the seventh grade and the doctors were telling me that I would have to wear a sling for a week that come back for a reevaluation. 
-1	I really dont have that much knowledge of medical issues other than the medical issues that i currently have and that my husband and children have other than that i dont have knowledge of enything else. If it is something that i am dealing with then i choose to educate myself. 
-1	Choosing madicinal methods of curing back pain for scoliosis instead taking Percocet. Curing my stimatch ace using ground ginger instead of over the conter petobismal. 
-1	There was never a time in which something occoured that required me to demonstrate. I'm not a medical professional but I don't have trouble understanding simple medicine and explanations that are given to me
-1	I really don't have experienced that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issue. So I don't know really how the answer that
-1	I don't I'm going to show that people don't ask to do these things that I'm doing . People want to alway show that I'm broke and have no morsel in life or that I don'work for that poem or they get so much tna that they don't get in trouble for the I don't now how to answers my own urges to help cope with life some will show me that I don't know how to stay in it and win like everyone people are like savages and ether will eat your head off it you let them . I'm gong to give you this I haven't don't e anything to better or even challenge myself for to be s better person other for some else to not see that in a person show how this my effect some else life and not mine I get everybody is conceal ing ther in tenthescto to hear, to orthers and not them self or them selfies the onethey help or I'm just giving up to m
-1	there really hasn't been an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues per se
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health issues when I talked to my mother about my pcos and all the symptoms that come along with it.
-1	So I have had 3 pregnancies. With my first child my water broke on its on. With my second and third the doctor broke it. To this day I tell any woman don't let them break their water because the pain is much worse.
-1	High blood pressure and,Diabetes is my main health concerns and,a cure for all these diseases. I have learned how to deal and control this.
-1	I needed to have an ailment with my foot taken care of. I asked all the questions that I thought would help in my situation from multiple doctors before deciding on getting procedure done.
-1	When testing for blood pressure, I got a reading of 160 over 95. I waited 10 minutes and got a reading of 170 over 99. I saw that it was rising, took meds, waited and tested again. When results were even higher I called 911, possibly preventing a stroke.
1	I'm diabetic so that has had a hair impact on my knowledge of health. I watch what I eat more to maintain sugar levels and try to keep diabetes and issues it can cause at bay
-1	Knowing that I couldn't take a certain medicine because I had an adverse effect from another medicine in the same family....
-1	I took a lot of medical classes in high school, they really prepared me for the life of a medical assistant
-1	In physiology class where we were treated on the bones and muscles of the body and was completly correct about almost most of it
1	I know I have seasonal allergies and take over the counter medication to lessen symptoms. I avoid food and drink that could have adverse interactions with medication. 
-1	an experience that happened in my life that demonstreted my knowledge of health or medical issues is when my cousin passed out at my house
-1	I have no experience that I would like to share at the moment. I prefer to not answer. It's a bit personal.
-1	I just took this survey and literally barely understood the questions they were asking me now i feel dumb like i failed a math quiz
1	My leg started to drag and I knew something was wrong and i Kept going to different doctor until I was finally admitted to the hospital.
-1	I only have asthma I have trouble breathing after rubbing or exercising for long periods of time and some times in small areas it's also hard to breathe 
-1	Fortunately for me but perhaps unfortunate for the purposes of this question I have no medical experience which would require deep understanding which makes demonstrations impossible.
-1	I once had an allergic reaction to naproxen when I wasn't allergic due to a panic attack. My body created an issue that wasn't really there
-1	Knowledge of health knowing if you feel bad you should consider going to the hospital but also try to do the best you can with trying to make yourself feel better if it not that serious but also always go to the doctor 
-1	My dad died from septic shock last year. He had flu symptoms, so he went to the urgent care down the street from my home. They told him he had a normal virus that needed to pass. 4 days later, he died and was diagnosed with septic shock.
-1	When my aunt seemed to be doing poorly on medication the doctor insisted was necessary for her treatment. I thought she was having an adverse reaction and sought the opinion of a doctor in a different health network who took her off the meds and she improved within a day
-1	I've had so many health issues in my life since my early twenties, that I feel very knowledgeable about so many areas of medical issues.
-1	On time my mother had wondered out into the cold. I didn't know how long she had been out, but I thought it might be a medical emergency. As it turned out, she stayed in the hospital for about a week.
-1	When I was in Highschool I took anatomy and sports medicine and when I was working at my job at skyzone and a little kid hurt themselves I knew exactly how to help
-1	I think I took a human biology course and lab at a community college and when I was able to take some medical quizzes for a social website I was able to do quite  well on them. 
-1	I really don't remember any experience in my life that demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	Just my every day living. Eating right exercising doing yoga. I know that this is the way to stay healthy
-1	I had an amputation that I had to take care of daily.I followed the directions that the hospital gave me.When I went back for a follow up the nurse said I did a good job following the directions for daily care.
-1	I had my gallbladder out about two years ago. I had to go through various test things including a HIDA scan. Through this experience I gained more knowledge on medical terminology and what it means to be a healthy
-1	I have high blood pressure. I have managed to keep it in check but when I go in and get my blood pressure checked I usually have a conversation with the one taking the reading and what I can do in my nutrition to improve it. 
-1	They have been times when I have shared my knowledge of having high blood pressure and hypothyroidism with others who are experiencing the same thing. 
-1	When my brother was born he swallowed fluids and had trouble breathing on his own. When everyone arrived at the hospital I was able to tell the family members what happened and explain to them the situation about my brother and why he had to be kept in an incubator.
-1	I catch the flu a lot so I know what medicines to take and what food to eat. I also know how much rest is needed and when to see a doctor when it is not better. Usually if not better in a week I will see a doctor.
1	In room care of my mother before she died. She had several health issues and had to take many drugs to control those issues
-1	When i got burned i had 2nd and 3rd degree superficial burns from my kneecaps to my feet. 10% of my skin was burned.
-1	I notice in my younger year that if I hang around trees I have allergies. I begin to keep medicine for allergies around me to help fight it's affects.
-1	I cant think of any at the moment. I know that for my carpal tunnel i need to wear the correct hand brace
-1	The first place and time again that you can see the picture of the year of my friends house for the first time I was going.
-1	When I went to the doctor and told them the problem I was having and what it was. They said it wasn't, but when the test was run, it showed what I had already said. They didn't believe me at first because of my symptoms.
-1	 actually false positives. If 1,000 women receive mammograms, and 200 are told there is an abnormal finding, how many women are likely to actually have breast cancer
1	I have experienced a high temperature and cold, which indicates that I could have the flu.  Also, when I start itching and seeing dark spots it signalifies that I starting a Eczema breakout.
-1	When my hands were aching nu.b going to sleep in had carputunnel in both my hands. Had surgery on the right hand didn't do any good need surgery on the left hand, but not my same surgeon
-1	As previously stated I worked for a health insurance company's for the past 2 years and my knowledge I have gained at work I have used for my own health and wellness.
-1	When I was younger I fell down a flight of stairs, and I had to get stitches. I had a stitches for about 2 months 
1	I have a child and helped to take care of my sisters children so I make it my business to know what I'm reading and being told. Whenever a family member gets sick I look up everything on what I need to know about it.
-1	Anytime my daughter has a flare up from her eczema I am knowledgeable due to her having it since she was a baby.
-1	When I was pregnant I knew I was told the doctor I was and when I too a urine test it was positive and so was my infrasound .  
-1	One time I was involved in an accident in which another person was cut on the leg and bleeding profusely. I knew to tie a tournequit around the leg to prevent this person from losing too much blood before the medics arrived on the scene and he was able to pull through.
-1	I was told one time that I was border line diabetic. I was put on metformin and told to lose weight. So let's took this medication for almost a year and I lost the weight. Anyway I was taken off this medicine because I was no longer border line diabetic, but it seems as if this medicine didn't help me as much as me just losing the weight.
1	I had to let my surgeon know, before I had a hysterectomy,  how much I wanted him to remove and which methods I preferred to use to avoid any form of blood tra n sfusions
-1	My son sometimes gets sick amd I know to monitor his fevers and make sure he has fluids in his system when he doesn't want to eat and make sure the fever is going down and not up 
1	My arm started itching me out of no where. Two days later two bumps stares forming. Puss was inside...I went to pharmacy and got a topical cream to reduce the itching since it looked like a spider bite. Before I used anything I went to a clinic to make sure that it was nothing serious and the physician said the same thing. 
-1	I was having back pain. I was told it was just the muscles in my back. I did the exercises I was suppose too. Told the doctor that it was not the muscle because muscles don't popover on movement.
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues is from the TV and family members. Hearing the news about people dying from health reasons has given me information to avoid it from happening to me.
-1	I think these particular questions are for medical professionals not patients who does not take these vitals.
-1	I haven't had this experience yet in my personally. My grandmother was in a coma and it tested my knowledge on that subject but other than that nothing has happened to me. 
-1	I feel like it's been good to know healthcare but I am not God I do feel that I am bless to help the sick and help teach 
-1	I understand vital signs, EKG's, lab results, allergic reactions, diagnoses, plan of care and treatment options. I also am aware that quality of care is based upon race, gender, and economic status.
-1	I had an MRI  that's had alot of big words I never heard of so I went  online looked up all the words and had a sense of what's going on with me
-1	"I had been breastfeeding my son for about 2 months for various reasons. My visit to my obgyn suggested that I get on birth control immediately. It was ""breast feeding"" friendly. However doing research on the pill I made the decision not to go on that particular birth control."
-1	I go to the doctors on a regular basis and ask plenty of questions. As I said before, my sister is a doctor and i rely on her expertise whenever I have questions or concerns.
-1	I have led a healthy life so I do not have any specific health or medical issues where I needed to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	A few years ago,one of my friends get an arm caught in some machine on his job and thought because the skin had turned deep red,that it would be broken but I told him that most likely it was just a deep burn from friction. And I was right. It wasn't broken and they treated him for a burn .
-1	an example of my experience in medicine happened from real life experience and classes i took in school
-1	When I was sick and I didn't know why and I just stayed in bed thinking it would get better and it was just a small issue but my mom forced me to go the the hospital and it was actually a severe situation and requires surgery.
-1	I know that I have asthma and my kids have allergies and eczema. I have experience with all of those.
-1	I had a small red patch on my forehead.  After doing some research I felt it might be basal cell but didn't quite has all the characteriests of it.  When I went for my yearly skin exam I talked to my doctor about it.  She too felt it didn't have the characterists of true basal cell and she said to apply a medication for a month and see it it went away (maybe just a patch of rough dry skin).  I told her to just take a sample and send it out rather than waiting a month to see if it went away.  Surprise it came back very early basal cell.  She was really surprised but it was good that it was caught early.  I had it removed and all is good.  So the doctor / patient team works well for me.
-1	I don't know. 2 years ago, I had a blood test about my weight, and back in February of this year I had a flu shot.
1	My profession as an occupational therapist consistently shows that I have knowledge of health and/or medical issues.
1	I had a routine mammogram done when they did and ultrasound with out waiting for a doctors order and during the tech's lunch time I knew I had breast cancer even before I got the official results
-1	Came down with shin cancer conditions a few years ago and had to have surgery to remove the spots. Have had no problems recently.
1	when my diabetes symptoms flared up i used the internet to gather as much information as i possibly could to get better
-1	My knowledge of health issues come from college studies, research and constantly talking to my healthcare provider
-1	When the nurse went to give my mother in law ibuprofen, I objected because I knew that it is aspirin based and she was taking blood thinner s.
-1	I was having awful chest pains and had visited the dr several times only to be told that it was acid reflux when I knew that it was NOT acid reflux.  My symptoms pointed to heart issues and I had to ask to be referred to a heart specialist
-1	When my child was sick and had a fever, I did not immediately bring him to the doctor. When his mucus changed color and became thicker, I was aware of the fact that he needed an antibiotic.  When I explained the issue to my doctor in detail, he asked if I had nursing experience. 
-1	Being diagnosed with a certain ailment, I am aware of certain side effects that can occur during the medication series.
-1	An event in my life was when my sister was sick and I was able to correctly describe the condition I felt she was in and the sickness she had before she went to the doctor. 
-1	there were no life experiences in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	A few years ago I was diagnosed with a serious medical condition that required me to take daily injections. After a few weeks of taking the injections I felt like I was not experiencing the effects of the condition that I was supposed to. So I did some research my own and then went to another doctor for a second opinion. Where I found out that I was misdiagnosed.
-1	When I'm not feeling well, I create my own concoctions and feel better.  Therefore, I have more knowledge of my health than anyone else.
1	I have been responsible for going to the doctor by myself and asking questions to gain knowledge of my health in the past three years. I also study things on my own because I am an aspiring professional athlete.
-1	I got diagnosed with type 1 diabetes last year so I have been in an out of the doctors quite a lot in the past year. I have increased my knowledge of my condition as well as other health conditions. I also am a college student and am majoring in biology so I learn a lot about health and medical issues 
-1	I haven't had advance nursing classes but I think I can follow along with my doctor and I will ask if need be. As far as my knowledge I took a medical terminology class and physical anatomy class 1&2. I have no problem looking for information if I need to
-1	when ii was shot in the head about 21 22 years ago and when i came out of the coma i had to rehabilitate for 2 and a half years is when i demonstrated my knowledge  of health and medical issues
-1	I worked in the medical field many years ago. Things may not be quite accurate. Medical technology is more advance.
1	I have an 8 year old who was has had many medical issues since birth. He was in the NICU for almost 4 months after birth. During his stay in hospital, he underwent tons of medical procedures and surgeries. As a responsible parent, I had to educate myself about the issues, terms, diagnoses, medications in order to understand and communicate with his doctors and carers. In addition, I needed as much knowledge as possible to take care of him at home. Thankfully, he is now doing well - fewer doctor visits and therapies and am even thinking of going back to work - if I can get a job :-)
1	When I went to get a mass in my breast checked I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues while talking to the doctor about my breast
-1	About a year ago i haf an issue with my fibroid tumor and i need to have a hysterectomy which was performed.
-1	So far I've no issues with my health, so I can't describe something that I never had, there's nothing to discuss I have no issues do far in my lifetjme.
-1	I know that the doctor will tell you what's wrong with you and lifestyle habits to get in to to change for the better. or other different things you could do to better your changes to living healthy
-1	I go to the doctor and fill out my application on my own. I understand when my doctor gives me diagnosis.
1	i had a cold. i knew i didn't need extra antibiotics and over the counter drugs. i treated it with natural remedies. and i was fine.
-1	When I stop getting my menstrual cycle at an early age I knew something was the cause of it even though they told I was fine
-1	had a doctor  mis read me  told me my sever pain in my  side  was  just in my  head   left  him believing him till i found  the pain didn't leave me only got worst so  i  went for   a second  opinion  glad i  did  found out  i  had  stage three colon cancer 
-1	When I was prescribed baby aspirin. This is shown to help from getting a heart attack tremendously. It is also used for blood thinner. This is very helpful information to know. It would avoid a life threatening situation.
-1	I can't answer that question because I  never experienced anything like this before or had anyone else who this happened too
-1	when someone at work was having a panic attack I knew the things that were best for the patient to help them slow their heart rate and get them to slow their breathing
-1	I was in a motorcycle wreck and was told I might have a concussion at that I should rest. The doctor had described my injury and because of that I rested and was much better.
-1	The one incident that I can recall would have happened about 10 years ago. I had been given a change in BP medication and also a prescription of Januvia. I was NOT diagnosed as diabetic yet, the doctor gave me this medication on an assumption. I asked questions of the doctor and also did research to understand what I was taking and why. Turns out, my questions went unheeded and I should have followed my gut feeling. One medication caused pancreatitis and the other I was allergic to as well causing anaphylactic shock.
-1	Was told i had a brain tumor, when more test were done it showed i did not have a brain tumor but was expose to medication i didn't need.
-1	In 2014, I had a medical crisis that required to me to learn about the foods that negatively affected my body. 
-1	I had had to provide support for elder family member and assist with treatment and care decisions, including DNR, long term care and home care choices. 
-1	I went to the hospital for good poisoning and shortness of breath. I was given an ultrasound and told I would have to have emergency surgery on my ovaries. I refused due to the fact there was no pap smear done.
-1	I have really bad allergies and I wanted to know all the available treatments for my allergies. I did extensive research on the internet and other sufferers in order to understand it better 
-1	The questions that are contained in this survey requiring extensive responsive are repetitive and unnecessary.
-1	I have no clue terms of medical issues but if you describe them I might realize what they can do to you
-1	I have no idea how to calculate percentages on these questions.I usually read WebMD or Google symptoms until I can talk to a nurse or doctor
-1	i have very little experience but i am currently a biology major at the college i attend, helps me to pick up some information from books and assignments other than what mt physician explains to me 
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with high blood pressure, diabetes, and heart problems. I became her caregiver. 
-1	When my father was told he heas a diebetic so then I realized that I have a positive chance of being one to.
-1	Well I really don't understand what you are trying to ask me . But I really don't think I had an experience in my life that actually happened. I just have so much knowledge about health 
-1	BEING DIAGNOSED WITH A DISEASE AND GIVEN A PERSCRIPTION THAT HAD A  $150 CO PAY. I KNEW THERE HAD TO BE SOMETHING ELSE I COULD TAKE SO I WENT ON THE INTERNET AND FOUND SOMETHING I COULD TAKE AND IT HAD A  $10 CO PAY. BEEN ON IT NOW FOR SEVERAL YEARS AND DOCTOR APPROVED IT.
-1	When I was pregnant with my first child. I had no idea what to expect when it was time to give birth. When I was in labor, in the back of my mind I could hear my doctor saying that I have to stay calm or else the baby's heartbeat would drop. I kept taking long deep breaths even though the pain was harsh. I was swaying back and forth, walking back and forth, trying not to tense, trying not to hold my breath. I did all of this because these were stuff that I was told to do by my physician throughout my pregnancy. 
1	I once found a lump in both of my breast that were painful. I knew I needed to go to the doctor so I scheduled an appointment and I found out I needed surgery to remove non-cancerous tumors.
-1	I had stomach pain back pain diahheera chills sweating and fatigue. I realized at that point I had food poisoning I was sick for 4 days 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was making food and I cut myself I immediately washed it off and put a bandage on.
-1	Last year I took my mom to get some mammogram and it was positive. After further testing she was told it was false.
-1	When my father needed to have his rotator cuff replaced. That put me in the center of his care. I was able to communicate with the physicians and nurses in regards to his care.
-1	i once witness an accident where the victim was passing out and i had to go in to administer CPR to resuscitate him before other first aid could be administer
-1	After answering the above questions, I'm not sure I know my information like I once thought I did. Gonna have to read up on some info
-1	I myself doesn't have any medical issues but my family does. My grandmother was diagnosed with breast cancer three years ago.
-1	Once again being a nursing student helps a lot with being able to understand all the diseases in the body
1	Sorry, I cant remember any experience right now other than being in my medical terminology class and knowing the terms that are being talked about.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrate my understand of health and medical issues pertains to my annual analysis of my lab works and comparing them to the previous year
-1	Having a Stroke and schizophrenia,  has changed my knowledge and outlook healthwise.  I have to have many regular doctor's appointments,  as well as a number different medications. 
-1	Doctor said I needed to loose 10 pounds then I would not have to take all the blood pressure medicine I use.
-1	ACTUALLY I DO NOT HAVE  MAJOR MEDICAL KNOWLEDGE SINCE I AM NOT ATTACHED OR ASSIGN UNTO THE TRUE MEDICAL FIELD.
-1	My mother has breast cancer and I remember reading up on the statistics from a project in health class my senior year. It really helped when my mom was feeling overwhelmed with information and I could explain everything to her and her options in a simpler way. 
-1	I was having issues with my stomach and pain after I ate, I had a feeling that it was a gallbladder. I spoke to my that Dr I had a the time and he did not believe me. So I had a second opinion. 
-1	Well, I just find out I have Hpv couple years back, which my cell were abnormal. So I went to see my doctor about it and she suggest me to get surgery done.  Than couple years later than my test result come back negative from the Hpv and Cancer.
-1	I'm not sure of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	When taking the blood pressure and respirations of a co-worker by following the instructions of a first responder. 
-1	I was working with a student who seemed very irrational and frustrated at the time. Very short tempered as well. Recently was aware they were diagnosed with diabetes. Knowing that low blood sugar can significantly impact mood and behavior, offered a snack to the student. Took for a short walk for water. The student was able to calm down and begin acting like her self. 
-1	I don't have extensive knowledge of medical issues. So I wouldn't really be able to speak on it. But I know a bit about my own health problems and I learned those from the dr and nurses. 
-1	One experience of that demonstrated my knowledge in health is when I began to have weight problems. This encouraged me to start reading more on health and causes of medical issues. 
-1	Mother was diagnosed with colon cancer. Father diagnosed with lung cancer. Both required chemo therapy 
-1	I have had few serious medical issues outside of the common cold and eczema. I have done research on other family members who may have experienced more serious conditions to better understand their condition.
-1	My mom was put in the hospital. Because I understood the dr's diagnosis, I was able to ensure that she got the right treatment.
1	I worked in regulatory compliance for pharmaceutical companies and was responsible for reviewing medical literature and drug promotional materials.
-1	A experience in my life that demonstrated I had knowledge of health issues would be when I was taking health class and I got a cold and I knew what was happening to me because I had that class.
-1	I got diagnosed with chrons disease i knew automically that my life would change.So i made sure i changed my diet just like my doctor said 
-1	My mom developed cancer in 2009. She had a severe struggle at first but she got through it and now she is a 5 year survivor 
-1	I attend nursing school. I am currently enrolled in microbiology, and have taken chemistry, organic chemistry, and Human Anatomy.
-1	I haven't had any medical issues but have had many clients with tons of medical issues from me to go to diabetes to myostis. I've seen it all
-1	Any Time I go to the doctor I very rarely if ever have trouble understanding or answering questions.
-1	in an oportunity, my children take him ball and brook his skin. i was very anxious but i goals to look my phone and call to hospital and i drive with my children. he were very sad 
1	Dont recall about myself but of a friend or roomate who had aa seizure and i knew being a cregiver what to do mostly and he ended up being okay.
1	I don't think I have a particular experience in my life that really demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues super strongly.
-1	I had to have my cervical spine redone. I had a few complications as a result and it has helped me understand what many medicines do and the effect they have on the body.
-1	There is no such experience. I am in perfect health. There has been no medical scare. That's all I have right now. 
-1	I really do not have any major experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	My doctor makes sure that I recap information given to me back to her and she helps confirm whether the information was properly received or not
1	had gas pains for several days, on the third day went to the ER to discovery I have a blood clot in my lungs
1	When a youngster started excessively salivating and complaining about throat closing up, I knew this individual was having anaphylaxis ( bad reaction to food or an allergen). 
-1	At one time I was told that l had high cholesterol I was frighten at first until I was put on some meds for the problem. 
-1	I'm a hydrocondriac so I do a lot of research online because I'm constantly worrying about mine. It really sucks 
-1	I really didn't have experience with my health I had a Leep done once I really don't remember it I was young
-1	I get my regular checkups as well as my yearly mammogram. Make sure that my husband has his regular and yearly checkups as well 
-1	I was playing basketball and have had history of tendinitis and during one play I heard a pop and fell and worried that I injured my patella tendon I went to ER. Later had MRI and confirmed I ruptured my patella tendon
-1	I suffered high blood pressure when pregnant. While I had never experienced this before even outside of pregnancy I knew immediately that my symtpoms were related to blood pressure and took was able to take immediate action to subside symtpoms before I could get to a doctor
-1	I had decided the Mirena was the way to go for birth control after my daughter was born. Soon after I had severe hair loss. Sure enough, when reading the fine print of the side effects associated with Mirena I see alopecia at the bottom. I requested it be removed the following week and my hair is slowly coming back.
-1	My parents both have had very serious medical issues. I father has had a triple-double bypass. My mom had a heart attack. They both smoked cigarettes. 
-1	I have been hospitalized two times in the past five years for a week at a time.  During that period I was able to question nurses and aids about how things worked.
-1	I do not have any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issue sthat come to mind. I listen to my doctor a lot.
-1	I haven't personally had an experience that required me to demonstrate my knowledge. I have completed lab exercises and calculated dosages of medication but never had any real issues.
-1	I dint really have any experience I mean I do work in the healt care girls I just make appts at my job at the front desk 
-1	Earlier this year, I was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. However, during the past four years I struggled with mental health issues and did research regarding my symptoms.  By doing this, I gained insight on my condition.
-1	its all good and great and helps others with the needs they have and wants to be better and healthful and good
1	A couple of years back, I fell when I was running on the treadmill and I scraped my leg. I knew to put ointment on the scab and put a gauze over it to help it heal, and I repeated for a week. I also continued to eat healthy and I noticed how quickly I healed and was back in the gym in no time.
1	My dad was having a diabetic episode his blood sugar was really low. I got him so orange juice and made sure that he didn't choke on it while he was drinking it
-1	I cant remember a specific time.  this question doesnt merit the reward given for it.  so i wont dignify this question with the effort it needs.
-1	Things that demonstrate my knowledge are , television, reading, asking questions, curious,and more...those are helping to take care of my health,
-1	Exercise is essential to promote good bone health  before and after hip replacement surgery to strengthen the bones
1	My son has osteogenesis imperfecta, he stumbled and fractured his leg. The school nurse was sure he had not because he was not uncomfortable or in pain. His leg did not swell but began ti fever in one spot. Along with his inability to move his toes. I instantly knew it was a fractured. X-ray showed his leg fractured in 2 places.
-1	I was discussing my health with my practitioner and was given information about diabetes.  The information was in depth and I understood it completely.
-1	I research and google a lot of medical symptoms and information I also google a lot of articles and reads on diseases and sicknesses 
1	When my son was a baby, he ran a high fever. I knew he needed attention when he was listless and his eyes had a glassy look to them
-1	i have high blood pressure and the hospital took me off of 1 of them because i told them something didn;t feel right and of course it was making my blood pressure elevate more
-1	I've been going to school for exercise science so some information is still relevant to me and I cam understand it
-1	I am very familiar with taking my own blood pressure.  I know that there are two reading systolic and diastolic.
-1	as a teenager i knew i had heat exhaustion when i temporarily blacked out on the beach. near the end of a pregnancy  i knew something was wrong when i began bleeding heavily. when i woke up once covered with hives i knew i had some kind of issue.
-1	I had cancer when I was 2 years old. I had leukemia. I believe now it effects the reason that I am anemic and have such trouble with my blood count.
-1	I had little knowledge about health but i asked alot of questions until i understand what the doctor or nurse is saying to me 
-1	i dont unstand it but i migth in a yesr go bye it take me along time to see the proble i slow to under stand the prolbe  is
-1	my father  had  colon  cancer and  my mother had  high sugar  so i  know  allittle about that suff  i  have  aheart murmer and  i  havehigh  colestrol
-1	I been a paramedic for the New York Fire  department for 28 years, also been  instructor for 15 years
-1	My experiences came down to my family members, i.e. my Dad, Mom and my husbands that have had health challenges.  I made sure I was kept abreast of what was going on.
-1	I amck not sure I have one but my husband kept having pains but he said it wasn't his heart. He would go lay down and he said that stopped the pain. This went on for about 2 months and then he was having one and I told him to go to ER and he said no. He was driving a truck at the time and he was due to leave later night when the pain came back. he wanted me to take him ccktco the truI will take you to the ER.ccc
-1	Being able to read my prescription materials and take medicine properly as well as reading my forms better than my doctor and noticing mistakes.
-1	I can't think of a situation in which I've needed to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	Never really had to show knowledge of this. Ive never had an issue where something bad has happened where someone needed help medically
-1	Not many I have not had any major surgeries or a life threatening diseases. The only thing I have is low heart rate.
-1	I was well of a high amount of knowledge of medical health care issues when being asked questions from my doctor so that I can understand the information about my body.
-1	I have a family history of diabetes,heart attacks and other problems and it has made me what to know what i will be geting into as i get older and my health starts to change.
1	I was at the doctor's office getting a check up and he said I have high blood pressure. I asked if that meant the pressure was between a certain amount and he said yes. 
-1	What demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I had to go to the hospital because I had s fever.
1	I had to think about them. I was never good at story problems in school and they made me think.  Not many of them seem to have real world applications though.
-1	was told i was exposed to TB. that was unfound of me .will never know how i was exposed. at first it was very alarming until the dr. told me there are many people exposed & dont necessary mean they get it.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health was becoming a nursing student, and working for a children's hospital at the same time.  For the first time ever I was able to piece together my book knowledge with every day real life situations. I was able to not just understand the world around me , but understand it in a different form while working with children.  
1	Diagnosis of hyperthyroidism in which I had to research the condition, learn how to maintain good health, and find support.
-1	when i learned about a friend who has MS. i was married, to this friend. also another time when i studied about bi polar disorder. i've learned a lot over the years.
-1	I have undergone several tests. I have been in the hospital for a seizure. I have been having fainting spells
-1	I had an allergic reaction to a topical cream and i stopped using it.  I called my doctor and informed her of this and scheduled an appointment to reevaluate my prescription. 
-1	I study hard in medical school and did rotations to prepare for my state   board exam and graduated with honors my subjects that I studied pharmacology,  philanthropy,  medicine , gynocolgy , nutrition and allot more
-1	I cant really answer this questioned like im suppose to because i cant recall any experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues 
-1	I had to have a Total knee replacement and research all information for the procedure.  I researched the information before the procedure, and what would happen during, and after.
-1	Helping my mom recover from a stroke and going to,school,for medical assisting at same time. I was able,to explain to her how,important it was to check her sugar so her diabetes doesn't get worse
1	My daughter had to be sent to the hospital for reactive airway disease. That then shifted to asthma a year later.
-1	When i was pregnant with both of my children i knew a little more than i thought when i went to see my obgyn
-1	I got to doctor and ask them questions. I also search online about health and medical issues. Also in school I learn about health and medical issues.
-1	knowing that a resident gave me something that the chart and my wristband say I'm allergic to.  this has happened more than once.
-1	I do not get depressed.  I look forward to each new morning. My spouse has many medical issues for which I am aware.
-1	I have had many medical issues through out my life and have to learn them and deal with them. That is all the experience with health 
-1	Well I had hyperthyroidism at one point for years and didn't know what it was, and the doctor told Mess less info instead of more, so I got a second opinion, and did some research myself, and changed my eating habits and exercised more.
-1	I had a breathing and walking rest done to check my asthma level. And I did great.I was also told that I have really bad allergies 
-1	was going to have a laparoscopic Partial hysterectomy. I googled the procedure and watched it on youtube. I was able to ask my DR if she was going to use small blue cup that will fit over the bladder so it would not be punctured during the surgery. 
-1	Whenever I'm prescribed a new medication, I always ask about the side affects, so I know when to notify my doctor of complications 
-1	I had a heart attack years ago. I new something was wrong. I went to the emergency room and had emergency open heart surgery. I am now on meds to control my heart. I don't do anything I am not supposed to do.
-1	Me taking care of my own diabetes. I was diagnose with riabetes when i was 9 years old. I have had to give myself insulin shots and lantis. I had to take my own blood pressure because i have hypertension and i also have developed gastropheresis. 
-1	I have had over 12 operations on my arteries, hysterectomy, and several broken bones and 2 children with one being a breech birth.
-1	I have worked in several group homes with clients with different diagnosis. I would have to read up on each client before being introduced to them. I have also had to take med classes to understand the meds they were taking
-1	I was told I may need an angioplasty procedure for Coronary Artery Disease.  The ballooning procedure would allow a stent to be deposited. It is left behind to keep the vessel open.  Even for the positive affects, there can be life threatening results.  Stenosis can re-occur.  You also need blood thinners for the rest of your life, which also has adverse affects.  I am choosing at this time to do all of the health and exercise changes and be checked along the way. 
-1	So far my experience in life was when I was pregnant with my children I was never full no matter what I ate, I always complaining that I'm hungry.
1	Cancer is prevalent in my family.  Of my mother, father and 5 brothers and sisters, as well as myself, 6 of us have had one or more forms of cancer.  Dealing with their cancers as well as my own gave me quite a knowledge of the disease and its treatments.
-1	I had to do additional research when I was told about Chrons and ulcers. I'm not saying I'm an expert on these things. However, I did thorough research to learn all I could about it. 
1	I have multiple sclerosis.  I don't get a choice but to learn a lot about health issues.  My form is progressive rather than remitting and relapsing, and in addition I have two other disabilities.  I've learned to read medical journals and occasionally know more about neurological drugs and their side effects than some medical professionals in related fields.  This is a common occurrence.
-1	In high school I took a health class. They were very thurough with explain signs and cues for certain illnesses and conditions. She really helped me out a lot.
-1	A tingling rash appeared on my waistline and I had a gut feeling it could be shingles yet I had received the shingles vaccine a year previously.  I researched it on line, and got in to see my doctor in time to get started on medication before it got really severe. 
-1	i have a nurse for a mother and i also read a lot so i think that i am pretty knowledgeable on certain things
-1	My doctor told me to keep my A1C below 7; I have done that and more. I feel very good about this, and am proud of this. 
-1	I always demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues because I usually research the condition or issue I need to research.
-1	i have no issues of heath that i am fully aware of, no idea what this question is about, so i do not know anything at all
1	math questions are hard when you have to read the questions it would be easier if every thing was writen out for you
1	Guess it would have to be my last brush with a medical problem. Had right lung that decided to not work anymore & deflated. Spent 8 days in hospital and went through extensive tests & other treatments before every thing was corrected. Did learn a lot about the lung functions & how to try & ensure it doesn't happen again.
1	I am able to get information from my dad and my relatives, who are doctors, to get my own opinion on the subject.
-1	 Recognizing my family tendency towards the osteoporosis I have always tried to digest as much protein vitamin D and get enough sunshine to fight this condition on a regular basis.
-1	 My oldest child has eczema, around 1 year old his eczema spread. I suspected food allergies and after testing we found out I was right
-1	I went to school to become a medical assistant. Graduated at the top of my class and worked at a hospital 
1	When my wife had cancer, we discussed the side effects of chemotherapy extensively with her doctor, and were prepared for everything that actually happened to her, which helped her to cope with it.
-1	I am a nurse, so I would like to think that I have a pretty good medical knowledgem, so I would say I demonstrate this every day when taking care of my patients.
-1	i found out that i had cancer so i started to read up on all  the medical stuff i could find so that i could try and beat the cancer and win back my health
-1	I have had health issues all my life and have had many tests and procedures performed on me. About 2008 I did my own research & discovered that I could have Fibromyalgia. I took this information to my doctor and he performed another test confirming my findings.
1	"I use a book called ""Taking Care of Yourself"" and I've avoided many trips to the doctor by using it as a reference. "
1	My son called me and said his chest hurt and he was having trouble breathing.  I sent him to the ER because I knew of the really bad pneumonia that is out there and felt he needed to be checked out
1	I had some blood work done that showed a possible cancer - I had the doctor explain the results of the bloodwork in plain english and found that after three more blood tests, the result showed I did not have cancer but just a slightly higher reading that was for me normal
-1	When i needed a hysterectomy, my doctor told i had a cyst on my ovaries, I understood the reason for surgery
-1	knee sometimes gives out when walking but I realize this is from an ongoing cyst in the back of the knee
-1	When my mother was broke out all over her back and legs and arms, and stomach , I looked at the situation closely and I looked on the internet to see what type of illness it was she had and I found the answer to the problem and then told her to go to her regular doctor to get medication
-1	I have been through a much of things. I still want more knowledge to make life better. I'm sick of having to deal with seizures.
-1	Never had to answer these questions - don't even think it is fair to ask them I went for cataract surgery told anesthesiologist that am medicine sensitive - take dose for 6 yr old - ignored me. Came out of surgery, went home and yelled at my spouse how he lost my cataract kit. - went to dr for one.  2 wks later found it on a shelf to the basement - didn't know I put it there - told opthamalogist - he told me that this anes. causes memory loss. I know my body so next eye was done with no anes. Ditto for allergies to formaldehyde,broke out, could not breath - same for albuterol etc. 
-1	I have had extensive medical training in school and that's my best feat of knowledge when it comes to medical things
-1	When I ended up getting a sexually trasmitted diesease from an ex boyfriend that cheated on me. I was anxious to get the results back, and was put on medication to try and get right of it. I kept getting sick because of the medicine so they had to switch it at least once or twice just to make it go away
-1	I used to play sports heavily and during conditioning i hurt my knee applying too much pressure to the joints so i got them examined to make sure there wasnt a tear and switched up my legwork routine to prevent further injuries. 
1	I woke up one day and my whole left side was tingling like it was asleep.  I thought right away that I might have had a mild stroke.  I went to my doctor and through testing by him went for more extensive testing at Mayo Clinic where it was found that I had a mild stroke.
-1	If I had high cholesterol and I took the cholesterol lowering drug then I could look forward to side effects of leg pain and possible liver problems.  It would be better and healthier to correct the situation through life style and diet change
-1	I hav e a too much chlorine problem.  I got a filter for my water and that helped.  Just lately, I found out that they wash peeled baby carrots with chlorine water before packaging them.  I quit eating them.  Got real sick.  Fell better now.  Watch them veggies!
1	just surviving different diseases and medical issues and being curious and wanting to be informed.i prefer to make informed decisions in all areas of life,including medical decisions.
1	Explaining to a friend a medical condition and what might have happened for them to have that conditions (e.g. dehydration)
-1	I have had a chronic issue since the age of 2, So for more than 50 years I have dealt with doctors, hospitals and medications. The primary care I have now has save my life. He is the best.
-1	when i had cancer cells on my cervix ,i was scared to death .Next time is when i had a kidney stone and was pregnant with my son ,
1	I used to be a medical claims examiner in heath insurance o it was pretty good. New lots of the terminology and basics
-1	i like to find an dignose how i feel by going on web md an serching for causes why im sick an what i can do to make my self feel better
-1	I am demonstrating great health and others have no troubles at all on my life threats or else I do not have any worries about my health or whatsoever about my health or else I will be very worried and everything.
-1	having to determine to what extent I would be delving into my own healt and wellness treatment in my 40's 
-1	I was a CNA so I always am experienceing  and demonstrating medical issues at all times and caring for those of all different issues
-1	I have had my medicine changed several times so I have to be precise on dosages.I have also had to learn side effects of certain medication. I have high blood pressure so I have to cut down on salt.
-1	there hasnt been any specific thing, I think I have a general knowledge just through life experiences like having children, having surgeries, and just general research of things im curious about
-1	I worked in a health office for awhile. Mostly filing but I learned some termiology and compassion. It's helped me be more open aND accepting of health related things
-1	I don't really know I have had a lot of data and that's when i would get surgery and stuff and then they would tell me what's going on  
-1	Navigating the medical system as I was diagnosed with Bipolar disorder, finding out how it is covered, where to get the help I need and so on.
-1	I have no k owledge so that's why pick a grate dr for me and they know what's is best for me in picking the right Meds for me
-1	When i was sick i knew what to do.  I got tea medicine and cough drops.  I ate chicken noodle soup and crackers and dry toast.  I felt better in two days.
-1	I had few test about my pregnancy and miscarriages before. I can understand some of the lab result but most I have to ask my doctor about them
-1	I have had 2 bouts with cancer, had a organ transplant, have kidney failure, have M.S. as well as other illnessess. I have been around all types of medical fields and have had to work hand in hand with doctors, nurses and hospitals to maintain and coordinate my health care.  I am extremely well versed in an array of medical issues and terms and have had to become extremely knowledgable so that I can have a strong understanding of my health issues
-1	I don't think that I know that much about health or anything like that. I'm fairly clueless about health.
-1	watch alot of medical shows and use to work in medical field. there is nothing else. and any other way i know more about medical knowledge and health information.
-1	I studied a little in the medical field, and a friend of mine had extreme pain on his right side. I told him to see a doctor, because I thought it was appendicitis, and it turns out it was.
-1	I was diagnosed with major depression at age 16 along with anorexia and have suffered from mental health issues a ever since so I have been forced to learn a lot about mental health and the way society and the country treat people with such illnesses
1	My husband exhibited some symptoms and after research I felt he had Parkinsons and got him to his doctor.  I was correct.
-1	sometimes  I had pain on he back under my neck, and it`s strong pain , and I can not move my head, after many times, I figure out it`s stress pain, just I take vitamin B and every thing will be ok 
-1	Working in a nursing home. Caring for my grandma that was in hospice and my brother in law. And now caring for my mom and my new born granddaughter that has downs syndrome 
-1	My family has a history of health problems. I learned mostly from being with them to exams, conversation, or self-education from books and online sources.
-1	Really little or none.  My mother had many health problems so I learned a lot because of that and most of the rest was learned from books, news articles or what doctors have told me.
-1	I have been proactive with my health all my adult life. I subscribe to health magazines and try to do the right things...eating well, exercise, see me doctors regularly and don't indulge in unhealthy behaviors such as smoking
-1	I have bad migraine headaches and I had to explain to my doctor the symptoms and signs of these headaches.
-1	When i found out i had social anxiety disorder i looked it up on the internet and saw i had all the symptoms and then talked to my doctor about and then got put on meds
-1	When i took my grandpa to the doctor. He didnt understand the doctors wording and then i explained it to him more on his level and he understood.
1	  Ijust broke my shoulder 6 weeks ago.  Since Ihad broken my arm when   Iwas 4, , even though I don't remember the incident, my instincts took over.  My sister had picked up my arm and when the feeling of it being broken scared her, she permanently dislocated my arm.  So this time. I knew to cradle it and not attempt to use it.  Irealized that Iwould have 2 muster up some exstraordinary patience for the long haul and teach my boyfriend how to work.  we started with cooking lessons 1  He is now ready to retire again, lo!
-1	I'm a self thought  health and medical issues that pop up and do research.  I'll do my best to find an answer.
1	Im not sure that i could actually think of an instance. I don't really ever pretend to know anything.
-1	When I had mersa I've learned alot about it how to keep from getting it where you can get it how to treat it 
-1	Last July I had theee episodes of upper abdominal pain. Pain radiated to my back. A little research online I was guessing gallbladder. Sure enough it was filled with stones. 
1	I was diagnosed with cancer and found myself sitting with surgeons, oncologists, radiologists, etc.  I certainly learned a lot of medical speaking during this time.  It was very important for me that I have someone else with me to help me remember what was actually said.
1	Many times when I have gotten a fever, I stay in bed and sweat it out rather than seeing a doctor for it. And I am not sure how to answer this question
-1	Mother of 5 children. Many dr visits, and paperwork. I don't know any thing other than being a patient. I don't feel I am real knowledgeable. 
-1	Nothing that I can think of at this moment.  I have always seen my doctor recularly so I am pretty sure I know what problems I have or might have in the future
-1	I studied to become a nurse and that plus raising three children with all the things kids get in school.  I learned a lot with the first one and each after that.
-1	I don't know of any instances in my life where I was presented with a need to demonstrate knowledge of medical issues.
-1	when i was going to the hospital with my brother to help him understand what the doctor was telling him.
1	When I was called in to the draft board for a physical to see if I qualified for the military I was 18 years old. I knew I had high blood pressure but had never had it checked by a doctor. When the examiner asked if anybody had anything physically wrong, I stepped forward. They took my blood pressure and immediately disqualified me from any military duty, I knew my physical limitations.
-1	Thanks again for the baby was born yesterday and today we have been talking about your experience with the light bill was paid for this position and would love you so much for your help with your company and we will have the money is not working with you and your family and friends and family
1	Severe stomach pain and constant vomiting for extended period of time led me to the emergency room where I was later found to have complete bowel blockage due to Crohns Disease.
-1	While there was a time of doing exercise in or outside taking time to have enough fuel and fluids to not get dehydrated, and taking time in when needed for rest to maintain health.
-1	Due to the fact that I suffer from COPD, emphysema, high blood pressure and congestive heart failure
-1	I just experience the pain and you just know but I don't have much knowledge on myself as far as medical problems to diagnose. 
-1	none of the Cosby show season with salt and great to hear from you soon after a long day and I am sure you are should I say that the 
-1	Have to take sugar every day and make it's the right numbers and then take medication to to held control sugar 
-1	Just watching documentaries and reading articles to learn different things about health. Practicing different alternatives to medicine
-1	When I was in a car accident I had to get some emergency surgery on my right ankle. With replacing my ankle bone with two plates and four screws.
-1	When i was taking care of my great grandma in was she got critically ill and pass away for old age and her heaven gates open up
-1	Taking all the medical classes offered in high school helped increase my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	when i was diagnoised with asthma. being that i had asthma i learn different medications and the severity of my asthma.
-1	Becoming a victim of COPD and also arthritis in my shoulders back and hips and knees from years of doing CNA work
1	I don't feel I have knowledge, I feel I have the ability to research questions or information. My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. The doctor gave her a lot of information. I researched the information so I could better understand and explain to my parents. I didn't have any knowledge, just the ability to look for the explanation. I also am always looking up the CBC test results, just saying I'm with-in acceptable range is never enough for me.
-1	i went to boarding school and some of my friends frequently got sick when the health center was closed. i would ususally help take care of them with basic medical practices.
-1	I'm not sure what your looking for, I have high blood pressure and high colesteroral not sure of the spelling
-1	Because years ago I had a stress test. And it came back normal with a little scary news. But at the end it all turned out to be good news.
-1	My health is great Nun but high blood pressure and try to eat the rite food and take my medicine rite
1	I am presently having trouble with abnormal menstrual cycles with heavy bleeding. In  efforts to resolve this issue,  I have had two vaginal ultrasounds, and have went in for a biopsy to get tested for endometritis.  The issue is being treated with birth control and being monitor. If issue cannot be contained,  then a d&c will be needed. 
1	i had to go to the hospital without my parents and it was wild bu ti mostly understood what they wanted from me so i sort of proud of myself
-1	I can't describe an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues because I never had to. 
-1	when i  was hospitalized during the year of 2001 having to file my own documents further by having to file peperwork for my spouse as well
-1	I can take my own blood pressure. I know when my blood pressure is up headache dizzy or weak. I know whwn to take myself to ER
-1	As a Home healthcare provider, you are knowledge about certain medical issues, becasuse of the clients they you deal with.
-1	I have gone through a series of tests to get checked for a hormonal imbalance. After tests, labs I found out i was normal. Yet i still have they same problems as last year 
-1	When I found out I had food and environmental allergies, and high blood pressure. I realized that serious changes had to happen with my eating habits and exercise. Drugs can help but positive changes would make the best difference.  
-1	I guess it the one where I had a broken leg and was never informed by the doctor. After two years of having some over the top pain. The broken leg was never treated and therefore the hip suffered my trauma. Because of missed diagnois I am no in need of a hip replacement.
-1	My stomach would pain as I bend and I realize I had fibroids the pain was not bad but I realize there was something wrong
1	I can't think of one specific situation that demonstrates my knowledge of health-related issues. The fact that I am healthy, active and satisfied with the way my body performs is enough for me.
-1	I try to stay away from the doctor and hosptail as much as possiblde, try and stay healthy as much as I can
-1	I looked it up online a lot. I also learned a lot from medical school and medical channels. So it helped me to adjust my health.
-1	Well through web MD is where I get my information very informative and o gets a lot of game from them
-1	MY EX HUSBAND SUFFERED FROM A STROKE AND I CALL 911 TO GET THE ABULANCE TO GET HELP FOR HIM AND THEY CAME AND GOT HIM TO THE HOSPITAL BEFORE IT WAS TOO SERIOUS
-1	An experience that shows my knowledge of health issues would be during a tests in high school based off of common sense of medical issues 
-1	You she is YouTube and the mother and mother the same way with the kids and she came back together and she has to come out and 
-1	my experience in life that has demonstrated my knowledge in health and medical issues would be my own experience with my medical issues being I have had 3 heart surgeries, and my families medical issues, and my mom being a nurse. 
-1	When my grandfather was passssing away I would help to take care of him at the hospital by brushing his teeth and cleaning 
-1	I have had a lot of negative experiences based on that. But I am trying to eat healthier to be healthier 
-1	I've been in the hospital a fee times.  My boyfriend also went to school for nursing so he's very knowledgeable on the subject.  I learn a lot from him actually.
-1	i think i know a little about medical issues i know what a lot people knows but i tried to find information if i need it
1	I had a sister who passed away many years ago from congenital heart disease so I grew up learning  about the disease.
-1	My mother has gone through several health issues over the past couple of years. I have gained much knowledge during her crazy medical journey.
-1	I have taken courses in college that were towards the medical field. These courses have helped me relate to real people and real health problems. 
-1	When my father was diagonise with cancer.   The knowledge on had help me to care for him and know a little of what was happening to him.
1	I have had thyroid problems for years. I also have two children, one who is sick often because of asthma and allergies. 
-1	TOO MUCH STYLE TO BEAR THE EVERYDAY LONG ACCOUNT OF SIMPLE ACORDE OF BEST STRICT IN THE FOLLOWING INSTANCE OF SO MUCH INSTRUCTION TO FOLLOW
-1	I had a ruptured appendix and I knew the signs and symptoms so I got to the doctor early and it was fixed in time to have no server problem 
-1	I knew before anyone else did that my son was suffering from autism, not delay, not regression but severe autism. I wish to God I was proved wrong, but I wasnt.
-1	A friend of mine had a regular check in with her GYN, and her pap smear came back with an abnormal reading and she was incredibly worried. I knew that abnormal readings didn't always mean that something was wrong, that sometimes there was just an error with the system, and assured her that everything was probably fine. When they did a test on her actual sample, it came back negative, and she was very relieved. 
-1	Never really had any real major medical issues. So I really can't answer this question. I glad I can't answer this question
-1	I had hodgkins lymphoma for 4 years so I learned a lot about that type of cancer. I researched a lot so I could understand it fully. Researched all my chemo drugs and everything with that as well. Had two transplants as well.
1	I have high cholesterol that is a genetic problem so I have to go and get my cholesterol checked frequently and monitor it. I exersize and eat well and eventually will have to go on medication. 
-1	The experience in my life that demonstrated my knowldge of health or medical issues is vast because my family had some medical cases
-1	My husband had a heart attack, then colon cancer then pancreatic cancer from which he ultimately died. He had two stents after his heart attack. He had radiation therapy and chemotherapy which he had a bad reaction to.  All of this in the course of 14 months. I was with him for every appointment and procedure.
-1	I attended college. I excelled in Chemistry and Biology. I also took honors level courses in those areas.
-1	I have never had an experience like that because I am very uneducated in the medical field and don't have many medical problems
-1	I am not a doctor and other than getting sick I don't have a great understand of medical issues. This survey makes me think that you need doctors to fill out this survey. This is a insane survey
1	I am vegan and get bombarded by questions by nonvegans about where I get my protein, my B12, iron, etc. I list tons of sources and usually shock people who had no idea that those food sources had all those vitamins, minerals, protein, etc.
1	My mother had had diabetes since a young child. I have learned how to check and monitor blood glucose as well as giving insulin shots to maintain my mother's blood glucose levels in severe situations. I learned from a young age how to determine if her blood sugar was low and what to do in those situations
1	I am pretty accurate in being able to figure out if someone has a cold verses having a sinus infection based on what parts of their face or their ears hurt at a given point in time. 
1	I get cluster headaches and most neurologists aren't educated in what the differences are between cluster headaches and migraines.  I also have Mnire's disease and went to a neurotologist, he had no knowledge of cluster headaches and I have to explain to him why they are different than migraines. 
-1	I almost had a heart attack one. When I thought I wasn't going to graduate. But I've moved passed that
1	the only thing I can relate this question to is knowing my own body. I know when to seek medical advise right away and when to wait a reasonable period of time to see if the symptom wanes.
-1	I have had 14 operations on my right hip due to an auto accident.  I first had one hip replacement that led to MRSA.  The MRSA was difficult to get rid of as I had to have infusions with Vancomicin to get rid of it 5 different times.  In the process, I have been in the hospital 14 times.  
1	One time I was having a discussion with a family member about health, and the subject of blood pressure came up.  I explained the differences between hypertension and hypotension.
-1	I have taken classes that were suited specifically for disabled students from first grade through high school.
1	Right now, my husband and I are going through the autism screening process with our eight year old son. My general knowledge has helped me when answering many of the potentially more confusing questions in several of the seemingly endless evaluations we have been completing as of late.
1	When I became sexually active, I knew I needed to see a doctor. After being diagnosed with an STD, I asked for all possible outcomes and treatments and have since gone in to follow up procedures twice in the past year. 
-1	walking from the bank,and started shaking really bad couldn,t walk any more passed out after crossing the street with my husband woke up in the hospital.
-1	I had a biopsy the other week that one procedure that I do not like it's very painful and they don't give you no anesthesia or anything just starts nipping
-1	I dont know if I ever have had one but maybe when I bandaged my own cut up instead of going to the doctor which I never have had to do thankfully but that would be it.
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues when somebody asked me about how you deal with surgery and your emotional well being after the surgery. I explained that everyone is different and even though you are hurting always look for the positive in everything.
-1	"This is a confusing questions, it's either not worded correctly it or means something completely different than I think it does but I am serverly over weight and doctors have been telling me to lose weight for years but the doctor I had 7 years ago never mentioned anything about my weight and that was the first time in my life that I said to myself ""I'm going to lose weight!"" And I did! I lost 100 pounds, my doctor never told me I needed to lose weight, just that she was proud of me for making the choice myself and she has found that a doctor can't make someone lose weight just by telling them they have to, the person had to want to. But I lost my health insurance due to the new Marketplace health insurance deal and I couldn't do to the doctors anymore, I have started gaining weight back. I realize that I need someone with me encouraging me and giving me ideas on what I can do like my doctor did without forcing it onto me. "
1	I've never had to go out of way to render aid to someone physically or vocally using medical advice. 
-1	I have no major health problems I try to eat a healty diet and I walk 5 miles everyday and I do not eat any white breads and try to stay away from sugar
-1	My life style keep me healthy if I stop it I would probably be sick I have alot of ailments so the exercises that I do on a normal day to day keeps me going
1	i knew i was allergic to aspirin in my 20's as i had taken it over a two month period on three occassions do to a headache and had a very significant reaction, that intensified each time i took the aspirin
-1	My knowlegde of health or medical issues is not alot. when i went to the dentist and they had to expalin my teeth cleaning that was easy to understand?
-1	I was having trouble urinating and  I  contacted my doctor and he told that I had a swollen prostate.   I looked up the symptoms and I immediately took action.
-1	When I had a cist under my arm and I had to listen to several different doctors and decide what treatment was best to undergo
-1	When I had my leg surgery I knew I was going to be okay because the doctors were able to perform the surgery and I was going to be able to walk again. 
-1	When I broke my knee and it did not heal right and they had to bore holes into my knee to make new cartilage grow.
1	There was a time when I went to the doctor believing that I had the flu, only to be told that it was simply a common cold. But after listing off the symptoms I was experiencing, the physician agreed with my assessment. 
-1	MY MOM WORKED AS A NURSE AND I WORKED AS A NURSE'S AIDE A SHORT TIME. MY DAUGHTER HAD AN BREATHING ATTACK DUE TO POLLEN IN THE AIR. 
-1	Having severe allergies and nose bleeds along with  having chest pains and headaches more than once a week.
-1	My career as a patient coordinator and surgical assistant, and my own health battles have enabled me to learn a great deal about health care. I cannot exclude caring for close friends and relatives as well. 
-1	Had many ill family members growing up. My sister was in and out of hospitals all her life so I gave first experience with dealing with health and medical issues. 
-1	I know only a little bit about health. But what I do not know I learn, and always make sure I educate myself. To learn about different issue
-1	learning health related issues in a health class, high school or college, maybe even in elementary school, even at home from parents conversations.
1	I sprained my ankle one time and I was aware of how to tie and rest my ankle using the proper techniques such as rest, ice, compression, and elevation.
-1	i dont think i have to much knowledge on the subject. but i am willing to learn. i am watching the lion king wishing i had a drink as usual,
-1	I really havent experienced any bad luck with health. I always try to eat right and do good by my bodu. I try to avoid junky foods and other health scares along thecway
-1	i have a open heart surgury  and i have to make the choice myself to have the surgury or not to have the surgury
-1	I cured diabetes byreading the internet. I exercised more ate rihht took herbs got off siger. Now my blood sugar dtaus at 90
-1	Well I have seziures so I know quite a lot about what cause it and what I can do to prevent it. I study on my condition so I wouldn't be in the unknown
-1	When I couldn't breathe for the longest when I went to the doctors she told me I had asthma and it was really bad to the point my lungs where half way  closed 
-1	I wanna be the best I can be because if I'm not what would I live for I think you do things in your life to survive.
-1	I was given a diagnosis that was contrary to what I have already looked up on the topic concerning the symptoms and it turned out to be what I had expected.
-1	I went to the doctor's office because I was experiencing headaches. Tests were done and it was determined that I was suffering from the affects of having high blood pressure.
-1	I don't remember any because it was too many years ago. I rarely have any medical issues that i had to be informed about an5 health issues
-1	i havent had any medical issues in my life my health is overall good i dont get sick or attend to many doctors offices or hospitals
-1	I know only what I have experience in I've pertaining to health knowledge of health and medical issue
-1	I had a bad cold that didn't seem to go away. I told the doctors that I had an unusual cold that didn't seem to go away. It was determined that I suffered from allergies, and that I hadn't realized or known that. 
-1	I am not sure I understand the question. I'm sorry.  I don't know what you are looking for as far as a answer goes 
-1	I have my CNA license so i know everything about medical and health issues. It is specifically in older people, but i have learned about blood pressure, diabetics, and more health issues. 
-1	I had a light headache and dizzy spells and rapid heart rate with sweating that lead up to a light heartache
-1	When my sister recently had a seizure I knew that she had to be placed on her side and kept calm. She could not be jarred or moved. I knew the basics of what to do as we waited for the ambulance to arrive.
-1	When I was younger, I notice hanging around trees I would sneeze a lot. I was aware the trees was making sick. I told my parent who give over the counter medication to relieve of the discomfort.
-1	I had wls and I Had to understand my new life and what I can't eat and what I can eat it was alot of information to try and understand
1	I have diabetes and I had my appendix taken out. I currently monitor what I eat and I was learning all I could while dealing with my appendix situation.
-1	Everyday that I have school I have to demonstrate what I already know against what I'm being taught. 
-1	I took classes in college for a medical degree. I also took an internship as well and we worked in hospitals and learned about everyday life for doctors
-1	My personal experience was when I was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes I got very bad at first but then everything changed
-1	Doing a roofing job, one of the men fail off his ladder and was not breathing so i gave him mouth to mouth till help came.
-1	What you doing fine I have to call me at work are you doing good how you doing fine out for you all doing hope to hear back from the good times for your time
-1	When I was in college, I was able to help a friend diagnose a skin rash and other symptoms as an allergic reaction based on information I learned in an Immunology class. 
-1	I'm alive and getting better, despite the fact that no doctor has ever been able to diagnose me correctly to fix the problems I have.  I've been learning to do it on my own and it works much better than wasting my time with doctors
-1	At 19 years of age I had a lot of stress in my life and began having small blackouts and I would feel light-headed.  I figured I was suffering from high blood pressure as I was a bit overweight and went to the doctor who diagnosed me with high blood pressure which was not good at such a young age.  I went home and immediately ingested fresh garlic with all my meals which helped me to alleviate my high blood pressure without having to take medication.
-1	Filling out forms at the doctor, reading nutrition labels, being taught about health throughout school 
-1	I work in a hospital a couple and nursing home a couple of years ago. thats where i experience my knowledge of health and medical issues. not so much for my own health, i have been pretty healthy so far
-1	I was feeling short of breath and I was alone. I knew to call for help to get to the hospital. I didn't have any symptoms of anything until I ate  oysters.
-1	I often go to the doctor and listen. I read and study. I comprehend what the doctor usually tells me.
-1	I wish not to tak or share my personal experience. I pretty health for th most part. No serious conditons
-1	I don't know and I hate that I don't want to go to the doctor office all the time I don't like it at all
-1	I was feeling a bit depressed after I started taking a brand of birth control, I had severe mood swings and felt that it was due to the birth control so I stopped. As soon as I stopped taking the birth control I felt like myself again.
-1	When I go to the doctor I'm sure to ask extra questions sometimes I even write them down because i know  I forget to ask. I also had training for medical assistant so that's where my knowledge come from as far as medical issues
-1	Taking care of your health eat heathy food take care of your body stay fit and healthy gets a doctor check up ones and a wild
-1	I had a sore throat that did not go away even through I was taking different cold medications. I check online and I discovered that I had a series viral infection which my doctor confirm.
-1	No every woman gets breast cancer just depends on the family genes and make up of your family members DNA 
-1	I know a couple people who have high cholesterol and was there when the doctor told him that they may have a heart attack
-1	My knowledge of certain medical issues that I actually can say I have a firm knowledge of is the size of a serving... 
-1	I know exactly what to take when i have a yeast infection or panic attack without having to go to the doctors. Simply by using natural home remedies.
-1	I had diverticulitis and had to be in the hospital for over two months to have a lower part of my intestines removed and it was a long time too heal from that situation
-1	An experiment that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when be when i discovered i had high blood pressure and i had to monitor my blood pressure every day.
-1	When I was in the hospital for surgery and I was suggesting to the Doctors what to do and what to prescribe and they agreed.
-1	I really haven't had an experienced any serious health issues that required I have some particular knowledge of the medical conditions.
-1	Well, learning in my health class about a lot of conditions I can say have that I've had plenty not only from physical but from mental issues as well.
-1	Taken Science (Biology, living environment and Earth Science) in 8th and beyond. Searching on Wikipedia and etc.
-1	When I had a rash on my arms I researched it to find out I had eczema but my ob told me I had psoriasis but it turned out I was right and he was wrong.
-1	I go to different doctors but they all have the same thing a like. We fill in the same thing when we go abd the ask the same questions.
1	When my husband was complaining of trouble sleeping and loud snoring I suggested he may have sleep apnea.  On his next visit to the doctor, he agreed, and scheduled a sleep study.
-1	i did not have a medin my medical issue an i plan on don't i did not have a demonstrated in my life. and i pray i don't
-1	Well I went to the doctor for missing periods and I found out that it had something to do with my ovaries. I knew that I had to take good care of my body and eat more healthy.
-1	I don't know what you think I'm going to tell you I don't know what to say I don't know how many characters this is I have no clue what you are talking about I hope this is a mini characters as I need
-1	Cool ok yeah in th in the codes in the real day in the star of the fur on the ocean time in c theatre in the under gu
-1	i have never had an experience in my life that demolished my knowledge of health and or medical care. 
-1	I had to get a surgery and it was good the outcome was good everything went very well with the surgery and the physician 
-1	My experience is that all  drugs are bull and have very little to do with actual findings. Resources with actual facts is not provided or proven.
-1	I usually just learn from experience, so much happened throughout my life, I just research up on most symptoms I have.
1	I was feeling dizzy and was rushed to the emergency room.  There the doctor told me my O2 reading was 84.  I realized that I wasn't getting enough oxygen and would need to go on oxygen at home.  He called a home health care facility and arranged for an oxygen concentrator to be delivered that evening.
-1	When I was diagnosed with anxiety and depression. I researched along with Dr's hrlp and over came the condition.
-1	when I had a bump under my eye I look up online and found out what it was. I treated it and it went down.
-1	A moment in m. y life where its described my experience with medical is when one of my bestfriends broke there arm and had a mild concussion while skate boarding. To make sure he didnt have and serious or life threating injuries we quickly called ems, elevated his feet and kept him from moving around till help arrived
-1	my health is everything i wanted it to be and then some. i had a checkup recently and everything is okay.
-1	I have not come against any and I  hope that I never have to experience that I  would not really now 
-1	I witnessed someone catch a disease and since then, I have made ways to stay healthy by eating healthier foods, more fruits, more vegetables, and I wash certain foods if needed. I barbeque meats more than rather than using grease, and I constantly drink liquids. These liquids are used to nuetralize and rejuvenate the body to stay hydrated
-1	I was was 6 months pregnant. I started to have real bad cramps. I knew something was wrong and went to the hospital. I found out the baby was not inside the placenta and for whatever reason I started to bleed internally. At that point I underwent surgery and they had to abort the baby and stopped the bleeding. I understood they had to take the actions they did to save my life.
-1	This is the best sites that are coming out of the best thing about this is a shared link cancel your service For the
-1	WHEN I WAS HELPING MY MOTHER TAKE CARE OF MY FATHER WHEN HE WAS DYING OF LIVER FAILURE, I BECAME PRETTY ADEPT AT ADMINISTERING HIS MEDICATIONS AND FEEDING HIM HIS MEALS.
-1	There was a time i saw someone having a seizure and i held their head to the side so they wouldnt choke on vomit and helped them stay calm after it was over and the medics arrived on the scene
-1	I dont know cause I really haven't had one in my life an praying I don't have one so I really cant answer the question 
-1	I'm not doctor so I haven't any real knowledge of medical issues.  I have a bachelors degree in recreation none of this prefers my degree at all 
-1	Never had the type of test spoken about.just had a simple test a simple breast exam in which is uncomfrontable
1	When i injured my back, i was able to tell the doctor exactly what it was. I just went to them for confirmation and a solution to the problem.
-1	I truly don't have no knowledge mint of what the questions you have answered but I bet answer them to the best of my ability
1	Last year I had to be retested for my mammogram. I didn't get upset, I just scheduled the second test. I figured that they saw something and they wanted to be as accurate as possible. The second test showed nothing.
-1	I had a vague understanding of the medical problems listed above. These are questions I would look up on the internet or ask my doctor to explain
-1	I was diagnosed with thyroid disease and have been taking synthroid for close to twenty years. I recently noticed my tsh was going up in my yearly tests. My doctor switched me to a different dosage.
-1	taking care of my mother who had lymphoma and taking care of my grandmother who had dementia.  i had to learn about medications and procedures
-1	I would have to say when I was employed in the medical field. There are lot of times in the field where you have to trust what you have learned. I think the best teacher is experience when it comes to the medical issures
-1	I cannot because I have no real knowledge of health or medical issues that I'm aware of.Most times it is just a guess.or I've read something about it.
-1	I have had an abnormal mammogram because I was called and told to come in and take the mammogram again. One that was a deeper probe of breast tissue. I knew I had been told that I had a sebaceous cyst outside my left breast underneath the breast. I had forgooten to mention it to the mammogram taker. Just as I thought, the cyst showed up and I was told to just make the mammogram takers aware and have it excised, if it bothered me.
-1	School helps u learn and grow staying at home and doing nothing damages ur brain bc ur brain needs to stay on not off
-1	Grandma diagnosed with colon and bladder cancer. All Doctor's appt. Informed and provided care through surgery. Provided home health care. Took classes on taking care of her post surgery. 
-1	This app is very unique very good and I love it and I want to be in the medical field one day so hopefully I can get there and hopefully I can help me with the
-1	When i have allergic reactions to certain things such as peanuts or any other types of nuts and bug bites
-1	I am very familiar with how the medical world works. I am proficient in the knowledge of the profession.
1	Recently, I experienced a shooting pain in my back and tingling sensation in my legs. I researched to find that these were symptoms of sciatica, which made sense of a feeling of numbness in my thighs and back pain that I'd been feeling for the past few months. 
-1	I don't technically have a medical issue because usually I go get occasionally check up to protect myself from serious affects
-1	I was having a out of body experience of heat flashes nausea and faint spells along with sleepiness body pain cramps
-1	I guess when I started having boils on my body that's when I started to do research on pilonidal cysts and hidradenita suppurativa online like the symptoms, treatment, and causes.
-1	I did suffer from kidney stones, but I found out from the doctor I wasn't drinking enough water in my system on a daily basis
-1	I am able to help people who have similar things like i do. Like eczema or pain in my knee or a cold 
-1	When my mother had a massive heart attack doctors said her right coronary was 100% blocked. She also had 40-60% heart damage. The team put a stent in but told her she would need to come back for open heart surgery because 3 other vessels were blocked. I used the information I knew about how the heart pumps blood to know what was wrong with mom and how they can fix it.
-1	My mom, two aunt died of cancer, my mom has had a problem with diabetes for years, so I had to pay attention to doctor conversation and I had to learn a little to under stand
-1	When I had to take health class in school. We had to learn how to do CPR on other students, as well as learn other Medical information to stay healthy. 
-1	When i was giving birth to my children. I learened something new each time. I haven't been in the hospital for anything other than birth.
-1	My doctor tells me that I have high cholesterol. He informs me that I have a 10% risk of having a heart attack in the next 5 years. If i start on a cholesterol-lowering drug, I can reduce my risk by 30%. 
-1	I have no idea what to do with the help of a sudden death of a sudden death in the morning and the other hand and the other hand 
-1	I always check online and health site to see if there's any I need to change about how healthy. I drink milk and take medicine to keep me well
-1	I was recently diagnosed with cancer of the throat and it was scary at first but the radiologist and the oncologist after talking to me and explaining to me everything that I was to experience help me better prepare for what I  experienced 
-1	I was diagnosed with a vocal cord disorder last year. Me knowing about EVERYTHING I've done in my prevented the disorder from becoming worse
-1	When I first found out I was pregnant, I never knew about my constant back pains & headaches. Now I know if I start to experience those issues, I can easily fix it with certain medications
-1	I was pregnant with my son. Before I knew for sure that I was pregnant I had gone to the doctor's office third different times for symptoms I knew to be related to pregnancy. Although the doctor's did not pick up on the signs I did and was able to care for myself to ensure a healthy pregnancy and delivery. 
-1	Life today is very overrated. People think that their life revolves around everyone to ever exist. They believe they are more special because they are sick while millions are dying from bombers 
-1	I recently acquired bronical aspergillosis. After a week and a half hospital stay, I also had to have a biopsy and eventual surgery to remove the fungus.
-1	When i had an allergic reaction to vicodin. I knew immediately that something was wrong. Began yo itch and red welts began to appear on my body
-1	I have had basic medical training MRT, CP training and live with a nurse. I have not had any serious medical problems and therefore have a limited knowledge of treatments or issues
1	I had an abnormal lump in my breast and did all of the necessary research and coordinated with my dr to schedule tests
-1	i really do not know i always ask the doctor to explain it to me or i will look it up and read more about it to know what it is and what the treatments is
-1	i have never had any medical issues that is dealing with the heart my heart has been good so far i havent smoke no cigeratte or nothing so my health is fine
1	A few years ago I had a severe pain in my chest. I went to the ER and was diagnosed with a muscle strain. I asked the doctor to run more tests because it didn't feel like that to me, I was right I had a cardiac issue.
-1	One time I fractured my knee and they told me it was a hairline fracture that would heal in 6 to 8 weeks if I kept the brace on and took the medication prescribed to me 
-1	When my mother had surgery for. Burst appendix l learned about what happens when it burst and what can happen if u ignore it too ong.
1	A few years ago I went to a chiropractor for back pains. I was shown an xray of my spine and the doctor explain what lumbar disease was and how the spine works
-1	non i haven't experienced any of these for less than a year and other pain. but i have told my doctor about it
1	The time in my life that I demonstrated knowledge of health was when I had a routine physical and my blood pressure was slightly high. I was told to come back in six months to re-examine. During that six months I changed my diet, exercised regularly and practiced holistic and meditation techniques. My next doctors visit, I was told that my blood pressure was significantly reduced and back to the normal range.
1	A time that I demonstrated knowledge is when I told as friend that she may have diabetes due to bad eating. She went to the doctor and she was right.
1	I was left alone to baby-sit my baby brother. Early in the evening he started to cry and his body was very warm. I wasn't sure how to medicate a baby but I knew that I had  to reduce his temperature immediately. I gave him a bath in cool water and let him play in it for a while. Within an hour his temperature had gone down.
-1	"I cannot think of an experience that is specific to me but my son was abit "" yellow "" when he was born.  Based on my knowledge of health and medical issues, I could tell the he had jaundice because of my experience "
-1	When I was told I had diabetes so I knew I had to lower my intake on calories,carbohydrates, and other things.
-1	Well a while ago I was told I had asthma now a few years later I don't have asthma my health is fine
-1	I had bells palsy. when  I went to the Dr I wwas able to help them determine what the illness was so treatment could begin right away
-1	I have some health issue so i know a little about medical issues.lm not a mathematician so the problem you needed me to figure out don't contain to me
-1	The problems will be bad if I didn't have what unneeded to have . Me getting all the work I need to be done would probably be a hard thing to do sometimes 
-1	I consult web md to gain more knowledge about symptoms I may have.  I consult the nurse on line to determine what the next steps should be. 
-1	I have bad asthma and allergies and it's an issue because my allergies depends on the type of whether and I sneeze often and always have a runny nose and my asthma I have to carry my inhaler everywhere
-1	is it true or false..who will tall just keepin up wiyh help an health..changed for the bed or good..is it what u want in health
-1	When my niece was choking I had to do the baby Heimlich maneuver Everbody was amazed and my sister was grateful.
-1	I had a great experience in my to demonstrate my knowledge of health when I was in the CNA training program and I was answering most of the questions 
-1	When I was admitted to E.R, I was able to tell doctor exactly what may had been causing my issue to due previous diagnosis from my specialist.
-1	Mainly my knowledge of math from school and common sense. I am not 100 percent sure about my answers though.
-1	I actually have no idea what I am talking about. I normally rely a lot on my mother whos in the medical field and the doctor to tell me whats wrong. But I should find out for myseld as well.
-1	I really haven't had any experience in life where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issue
-1	A neighbor was into drugs and ODed. I ran over did CPR til the EMS got there. Everyone said thanks to me he made it through. Now he's on a path to recovery (i hope) 
-1	I have minimum knowledge about medical Issues but I can try to treat a Cold or the Flu. I know how to treat Minor burns and cuts.
-1	When I was diagnosed with asthma. I had a series of inhalers that I had to use in order to breathe. I had no trouble understanding 
-1	I really have been struggling with my condition for sometime now. It really showed me how little I actually knew about my wellbeing
-1	My grandfather was 89 years old when he was diagnosed with stage 4 lung cancer. He was placed on hospice care. We had the option to move forward with chemotherapy or radiation. As a family we decided we would move forward with hospice care and deny the treatments. Based on his age and the progression of the cancer we thought it would be best for him to enjoy his last days versus allowing him to suffer through the treatments.
-1	In my lve had a good understanding of medical problems and how much of something I'm taking in so I've had a nice understanding with evreything
-1	Read online medical journals, eat right, and do regular daily  exercise, sleep and take enough rest.call my doctor and arrange for medical check up.
-1	I was diagnosed with Seborrheic Dermatitis but the prescribed topical medication did not yield positive results for me, though I applied it daily. Rather than continuing purchasing this expensive topical medication I began looking for natural remedies and found what worked best for my skin type.
-1	I die in my sleep  because I couldn't not even wake up because I was so scared  but now I'm am better know 
-1	Often times I read news and articles for the fun of it, I have some knowledge from that. My mother is a nurse in a clinic, but not an RN nurse and that has helped me as well. 
1	I have done case studies in a few of my classes to apply my knowledge. One class I did this in was physiology.
-1	Recently I lost an unborn child. I knew that somthing was wrong. 1 day after I took an home pregnancy test I started bleeding. I went to the hospital the next day and was told to come back 2 days later to check my levels again this happened on the the 7th and the 9th of one month and I ended up having surgery by the 26th of the same month. I just knew something was wrong seeing as this wasn't my first miscarriage but the 1 thing that was different this time was that my baby had an heart beat but the baby was in my tube. So they had to take not only the baby but also my tube. 
-1	My experience was going to school and studying my math while in school ad out of school and having tutors 
-1	"I recently went to a hospital and recieved very rushed service from a ""professional"" who gave me naproxen for severe abdominal and back pain claiming I had ""simply slept wrong"". I did not take the naproxen because I know all about nsaids and their affect on the stomach. I went back to the same hospital after the pain persisted and received excellent service from staff who agreed that the drugs given to me could worsen my condition and were ill advised. "
-1	I would have to say that would be when I get on google and increase my knowledge in stuff and all....
-1	One of my friends had the flu but just thought it was food poisoning so I told her to go to the doctor 
1	I'm Type 1 diabetic, so I deal with medical issues on a daily basis.  I have been strictly managing my diet, exercise and insulin intake.
-1	When I had a sinus infection and I realized this from past infections which included my upper teeth hurting and a stuffy nose and headache.
-1	NA - cannot think of a specific moment. I have never experienced a moment where I needed to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	My husband had open heart surgery the charges and hospital and doctor expenses were enormous and time consuming
-1	Just the fact that I know more about my condition than doctors, due to facebook, so it is a real shame.
-1	I'm not really sure i can't really think of anything that demonstrated i had knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	My grandmother was diagnosed with a brain tumor. After doing much research on the internet,using knowlege i already had and visiting several doctors, we had more information .
1	Family history of certain illnesses; over 25 years as a pharma sales rep detailing cardio Rx's.  Knowing risks of developing a certain disease based on family history and taking steps to lessen the chances.
-1	I have quite a few health issues, so i have quite a few negative and positive experiences when it comes to doctors and nurses as well as just over all medical expereinces and knowledge of conditions. 
1	"I had a young man come to clean my carpets. He was ill, looked pale , had a fever, and complained of abdominal pain. As he was setting up the equipment outside my home, he collapsed. I called 911 as he was experiencing what is called a ""acute abdomen."" He was diagnosed with acute appendicitis, went by ambulance to the hospital and underwent emergency surgery."
1	I went to uc Berkeley and majored and got a ba degree in human biodynamics.  sports medicine basically.  as well I was an athletic trainer in my 5 years of college, worked with emergency response an doctors
1	My husband went in for knee replacement surgery. The day after his operation, he was told definitively that he was diabetic. I was astonished, as he had never been told that he was at risk-he ate well, was a healthy weight, and went to the doctor twice a year for check ups. I also knew that surgery can impact blood sugar. We discussed it, and he held off on taking insulin until the stress on his body had diminished. He was retested twice, and both time his blood sugar was normal. 
1	I had to perform the heimleck manouever on one occasion and also perform first aid many times and I'm glad I had some basic knowledge of both of these.
-1	I work in Healthcare.  For 12 years I've worked as a chaplain.  I learn about issues by listening to doctors and nurses talk to patients.
-1	I understand alot of health issue as i do read alot of medical books... and watch procedures... I am not familar with some of these as i dont have any of these conditions... i dont have any relatives at the moment with these issues either... but educating yourself is never a bad thing... 
-1	I have a condition called neuropathy. I got it over the years and do not know why? I take medication to help open up my arteries so blood flows better into my feet and toes. 
1	Up until the past seven years or so, I have been in very good health.  The last seven years, though, I have had a great deal of health problems, and this has required me to learn more about health and medical issues.
-1	I use information provided from others, not word and number games that test my stupidity in this survey
-1	My lungs.Was not not really belived by medical staff. They just kept giving me antibiotics until I became resistent and got candida. That I also curied on my own. The lungs I took herbs/vitamins for.
-1	When I was pregnant, I knew something was wrong and had all the signs. My doctor didn't even catch it or even thing of it, but I was correct.
-1	when I had a hemmorride surgery I had no clue as to what would happen after so I roled every question immagable at the doctor
-1	A1C Levels Over 7 Are On The Way To Diabetes...So It Is Worthwhile To Have A Goal Of Lwss Than 7% A1C ...
-1	I took a health class in high school . It taught us basics procedures for a emergency . I learned cpr and how to find a pulse and how to interact with a person/patient.
-1	when i got diabetes i had to readjust my life, exercise more, eat right, watch my weight and such, it is a very serious disease
1	Every time I researched my symptoms myself and self-medicated during the times in my life when I had no insurance. Also, every time my son has been sick.
-1	since i am not a medical doctor i would say that i do not pocess the ability to accurately demenstrate any in depth knowledge of medical issues
-1	I actually  have taken medical terminology classes, so I have knowledge of what some things are and what can be done
1	I have had four sinus surgeries and I minored in biology in college. I have had health issues all my life, so I at least know how to understand them.
-1	when i needed to understand my doctor's health recommendation for me. i had to do some calculations to understand what tge doctor said was wrong
-1	I had seen a commercial for a medication on television. It said that the medication shouldn't be taken with another medication at the same time because it increases risks of serious side effects. I told another person about this. They asked their doctor about this, and they had to stop taking one of the medications. 
-1	My mother was complaining of feeling weak, and was cold and clammy to the touch, I suggested that it might be due to low blood sugar, and after she checked herself, I was correct and she had a low blood sugar 
-1	I've honestly never had any serious medicall issues myself. My daughter has had breathing issues off and on which has caused me to have to follow up and understand doctors. 
-1	i was diagnosed with cancer and had to answer a lot of questions and continue to do so throughout my treatment through the years. 
1	"The only real medical issue I have had personally since childhood was a bout of Bell's Palsy about 20 years ago.  Partial facial paralysis made me initially fear a stroke but I was reassured that my mental abilities seemed okay.  Successful treatment at a med center followed by some online research taught me that this condition just ""happens"" and it's causes and chance of recurrence are pretty much unknown."
-1	I can't really recall anything off the top of my head at this very moment of any experiences that I can demonstrate
-1	When I was pregnant I learned alot about having a baby.  I read alot and asked questions   I asked others about there pregnancies too
-1	i was able to care for my husband when he got sick i did everything i could for him  and knew a lot about his illness
-1	I really dont have no knowledge of medical and health issues I just go by what I feel is right. I know my body and when I'm sick and how i feel so I tell the doctors the best i can about the problem 
1	when i went to college i studied alot of health and science courses so i have pretty good knowledge on the subjects
1	My wife has diabetes and 10 years ago she had a stroke. I take care of her diabetes regimen and I learned an awful lot during her stroke rehab.
1	all i'm wondering rn is why the math questions man. i mean, what, i'm not that smart. dude, just why.
-1	I was diagnosed with familial breast cancer at age 41. Because of the experiences of my mother, aunt and grandmother I already knew quite a bit about the disease.
-1	i dont know much about this subject and i do not feel comfortable about it  other than gthat i just dont know much about it
1	I have no idea but I will try.  I had heart bypass surgery and I know why the surgery was necessary for me and what I had to do to recover from the surgery
1	these questions are really word problems for math, how did i doo. u need to have the answers show at then end of this test
1	When I had pneumenia a few years ago it required hospitalization and it was thought that the cause was that I was anemic and I had no idea that just a small iron pill could help keep me healthier
1	I don't have extensive knowledge relating to health issues, except for those I myself have dealt with.  I do however, know how to research and questions to determine what course of action would be both most effective and most to my own choosing.
1	I have had 5 children and I have had no  problems with raising them in a healthy manner.  I was able to tell when their problems were serious enough to consult with a doctor.  They are all married, with families and are doing very well in life.
-1	Smoking sucks, don't use drugs unless Prescribed, it isn't nice to play in the middle of the street, especially if the street is an Interstate and babies do NOT come from storks.
1	I have hearing loss which is profound and has gotten worse over the 32 years I have worn hearing aids.  I have had hearing tests showing the bone conduction hearing and regular hearing to be quite different.  In researching I have found surgery may be an option.
-1	i always read thru medical books and sites and try to learn as much as i can thru the medical field i want to further eduracate myself 
-1	My husband had gangrene in a foot from chemo. I visited my uncle and knew he had gangrene in his feet by the smell
-1	"I have had such few experiences with my health in regards to issues that it is difficult for me to even remember what one of those might be.  I did have a mammogram that came back ""suspicious"".  I had already been through that before, therefore, I was actually unconcerned about the results but did take a second mammogram which showed all was okay after all."
-1	I have been diagnosed with a slipped disc because of arthritis and when I went to physical therapy the therapists explained the problem to me.  He said the arthritis has pushed my disc to the back of my spine alittle that is why I'm having pain
-1	When my son had a high fever, and at the moment I found out what to do to ease the fever and get him to the doctor quickly. That's it, I learned by reading and studying these symptoms.
-1	Working in drs office and naming medications and usuage to the nurses  who were new and them coming to me for advice as I have a good understanding of how things work 
1	After I had my colectomy in Jan. 2003, I relearned all of the ulcerative colitis terms and jargon my mom taught me because she suffers from the same condition.
-1	My sister has ms and I did allot of research on this subject.  Just to see how it fit with her symptoms and how it is going to progress
-1	my grandson has type 1 diabetes and an insulin pump.  learning how to take his sugar and do the math to put in the right numbers in his pump has been a long, painstaking process that I am doing but always nervous about.  thank god for the equations and calculator.
1	I was diagnosed with a chronic thyroid condition and was able to communicate single-handedly with the various doctors I visited
1	I'm not sure if I understand this question, but I regularly speak wtih a doctor about mental health. I have a strong understanding about the side effects of many drugs.
1	I currestly work in the medical field in a physical therapy and chirpractor office and work with medical diagnosis and icd 10 daily
-1	well i do know because i do ask to much about medicine, and my siste do know much about the medice. And also about my desice 
-1	I am 72 years of age I pay attention to what physicians suggest sp I may live a long productive life    Pay attention to family history and advise phsician of same
-1	After having had shoulder surgery I learned on my own ie not from the doctor, that the best solution to my ongoing issue with the shoulder were specific exercises and it actually worked.  How smart of me? :-)
-1	I don't know I did tell my stepmom to use sunscreen because he hair was red but she didn't then she got skin cancer
-1	my mom tell me this. Sun, read this survey without my sunglasses. hahaha, is a crazy woman, but i love it.
-1	i was riding on the handle bars and I got worried and starting moving around on the bike's handle bar, being close to the tires my foot got stuck between the spokes. the bruise on my ankle got infected and i needed to see a doctor. I got cured and went back home.. 
-1	Depression is a staple of mine.  I read all informaiton that I find dealing with the subject, and then I speak with my doctor about my findings for the best treatment.
1	I have not had any major health issue. The only time I have been in a hospital is to give birth and everything went smoothly. I did feel like I knew what was going on the entire time.  The nurses and doctor did a great of explaining everything that was happening. 
-1	i have some knowledge of some health issuses but not all of them some things i know and some things i do not know
-1	my hands were constantly getting numb and sometimes hurting.  I told the Doctor but she did or said nothing.  I looked yo my symptoms and found that I suffered from Carpal Tunnel and then the Doctor took action.
-1	i dont know that much about health or medical issues. I dont have any and i donr know anyone who has anything that needs continual treatment
-1	I have not had a experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. So I can not really answer this question at this moment.
-1	How many times else do you know tomorrow they should be able to help you out . Not doing what ever they doing and playing around and talking to others whole while work is needed to be done
-1	I can fill out  my own forms and I can understand 95% of what I read. When I have questions I have them written down.
-1	I do not know anything on how this works. I don't have any undestanding what is explained to me for what so ever.
-1	I've taken a class in high school where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of heart or medical issues because I had to do cpr on s dummy. 
-1	I had an experience many years ago where I was involved in a car accident and my knees were injured during the crash.  I saw a couple of different doctors who couldn't find anything wrong, but I know their findings were not accurate because of the pain I was feeling.
-1	When I wen tothe gym and the trainer was talking abiut eating healthy and excersing and I knew most of what he was talking about 
-1	When my sisters baby had a rash I immediately knew what it was and how to treat it. I even wrote down instructions for her to follow
-1	When I had to have a hysterectomy, I understood the reason.  I was more than happy to have the procedure.
-1	I worked briefly as a medical support assistant so I picked up on cpr and safety training tips needed for real life
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with stage three Ovarian Cancer, I knew the difference between the words benign and malignant. 
-1	When my mom had a stroke I thought about the symptoms she was having days before and realized they were in relationship to her having a stroke. 
-1	There is no experience in my life. I have not had this experience in my life so far. I can not give any information on this.
-1	once a man had a heart attack and i saved him and take him to hospital and he was happy ever afterfor a long long time with his fammily
-1	When a loved one was going through cancer treatment I was somewhat informative about what was happening by listening to her doctor and obsorbing the information
-1	When i was home 5 years ago i experience  and very serious  health  issues which cause me to be in the hospital  for 3 months but GOD heal me
-1	I have not have had any health issue for the pass years of my like. But have seen people gone through lots of health issue because I am Working in the health field 
-1	When I had my daughter. It was the most beautiful experience ever. The hospital staff was great. I felt very comfortable.
1	There is no one experience. My family has a lot of health issues, and we've all spent a lot of time in clinics and hospitals.
-1	Well I did have an issue a few years ago when it was discovered  that I had cervical cancer and I needed to undergo laser surgery to remove the precancerous cells that was a very scary situation for me.Its the not knowing if it will reoccur late in life
-1	My sister is s doctor so she taught me a lot about the medical field in particular how to take better care of myself 
-1	Filling out a complete health screening at a physician's office requires some knowledge of health or medical issues.  There is terminology used on those forms which require at least a rudimentary knowledge. 
-1	i haven't had that type of experience. it wasn't a bad experience when they told me i had polycystic ovarian syndrome it was not that concerning they just told me what to do and gave a medication for it
-1	WHEN I WAS ABLE TO FIND OUT MY BLOOD PRESSURE NUMBERS WITHOUT ASKING QUESTIONS. I WAS ABLE TO MANAGE MY SUGAR INTAKE WITH GOOD MEASUREMENTS
1	throughout my live i have had a lot of medical procedures, when i was 15 i had major surgery on my back and had to wear a back brace for 10 months and varies other procedures during my lifetime
-1	When I had my gastric bypass surgery I had to learn alot abt my new life and loss of weight. How to eat right
-1	I have experienced a few illnesses in my lifetime.  So I have been around many different  types of illnesses.  I have been a patient for gout and acute kidney failure.
-1	I fell playing basketball some years ago and when I tried to stand up I was unable to after trying to stand up a few times and was unable to I knew I broke my knee
1	My doctor felt a little bump in my ready so I was scheduled to get s mammogram. It was very painful and uncomfortable but it turned out to be a benign cyst. I have to keep a eye on it to make sure there is no change 
-1	I have been researching my health issues for years.  I also worked for a medical facility and read lots of material.
-1	Where did you fry was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes before I got married and after I had gotten married we've had three kids so I had to learn about nutrition and taking insulin testing my blood sugarlevels 
-1	the aftermath-caught a cold and passed out and found out it was because i was dehydrated-now i know to have more liquids in coldd weather because i can be dehydrated then too
-1	I was at a doctors office and they asked me to describe what my blood pressure meant. I was able to explain to him my understanding of it. 
-1	I currently have a pacemaker/difibulater and about 3 years ago I fely a shock and knew I need to call 911 because it was not something I'd ever felt, but I had been educated on my device and knew what to do when something different happened (it was a different type of shock)
-1	I read all of my prescriptions and the the doctors orders and even the pharmacist explanations of the medicines
-1	A previous diagnosis of adenomyosis which entailed and resulted in tissue growing within the uterine wall. This causea vomiting, severe menstrual cramps etc during a woman's cycle
-1	When I was having constant chest pains, fear of dying, fatigue, dizziness, etc I was sure it was anxiety after I went to the ER several times. 
1	I was training for a marathon, and I was able to determine that pain I was experiencing at the time went beyond normal training soreness. I went to seek medical advice, and discovered I had partially torn my posterior tibial tendon, which required surgery
-1	When my side was really bothering me i was in pain that almost felt like menstrual cramps, unsure of the difference I used my prior knowledge about my appendix to lead me to the emergency room
-1	Having to find out surprisingly that I had Type 2 diabetes. I knew something was wrong because my sugar level was over 400.
-1	About five years ago, my appendix ruptured.   I didn't go to the hospital until I was in severe pain.  Once I was in the hospital, I had already diagnosed myself as having either appendicitis or food poisoning -- I was close!
-1	Whenever I hyperventilate or get mad. Because I have asthma and I can't breath much often and sometimes when I am in that situation and sometimes I lose oxygen.
-1	I can't recall any thing that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.                 
-1	NO I didn't have a moment when I know enough about the medical issues that was happening I didn't know a dang thing.
-1	Filling out forms, finding a lump in my breast and going to the doctors, having multiple surgeries  
-1	I Had a Stroke in 2013 so I now have a better understanding of what good blood pressure is. Outside of that I really don't have a lot of knowledge of other medical issues.
-1	When I had a mass in my ovaries I had to get it removed and that was a serious medical issue for me I had laperscopic surgery it was the best thing I could have done because it was one less thing I had to worry about 
-1	Taking the recommended dosages of prescribed medications  trying to eat healthier as suggested by the doctor and trying to exercise
-1	When a person i know has has sleep apmea and she look like she wasnt breathin and i tap her and she was fine
-1	studying as a nurse aide and working as a volunteer at the veterans hospital watching and learning the professionals perform their daily duties
-1	I just became an adult, so I imagine I'll have to do more things like this. The only things I've done is schedule appointments, but I'm having a physical and then going on a 10-hour fast for a lab.
-1	I have read up on or received training on certain health topics. I also had family members in the medical field. 
-1	I am a homemaker who doesn't  do alot of active activites to heep myself upbeat and energized. I try to do a lot of house chores to get some activies in
-1	My knowledge of health came when I had to have surgery for a tumor.  It was serious enough to warrant surgery however, we caught it in time so therefore the tumor was benigned, and my recovery time was six weeks.
-1	When I was pregnant I thought I had pregnancy diabetes by taking the test and drinking the drink. The at home test I failed, but the in office text I passed.
-1	By knowing the out come of the test that i take, and seeing the doctors when you supose too, and made show you follow up on the test that the doctors order so you can keep well
-1	a mammogramis used to screen women for breast cancer. false positives are tests that show a positive result.
-1	I noticed my best friend had a crooked spine and I told her and her mother that I think she has scoliosis and I was absolutely right.
