1	I have been to the doctor a few times for myself but usually it was taking a child or a friend in.  My wife works in a hospital
-1	I have been to numerous doctors over the years for different reasons. I try to ask questions and get a little bit of information each time. It all depends on who I am speaking with and how helpful they are.
-1	I am a reasobly intelligent person, so if it is something that I know something about, I can talk confidently about it. If I do not know, I can and will do research about the condition. 
1	I tended to my sore feet after running a marathon.
1	I independently self-diagnosed myself with a rare inner ear condition by reading current medical journals before seeing my GP and my ear doctor.
1	Reading about Morton neuroma.  Learned what its effects are on google
-1	I had to help my mom as she was going through cancer. I feel like I was able to comprehend most of what her oncologist was explaining about radiation, chemo, and side effects.
1	When I dealt with my own Interstitial Cystitis 
-1	Once I washed out a deep wound with rubbing alcohol so it wouldn't get infected
-1	I have to recount my daughters medical history every time we go to the doctor. Because she has significant medical issues (all of which I learned about after having her,) I am quite versed on speaking about her health issues.
-1	When I had to have an emergency c section
-1	When I was pregnant and I had gestation diabetes and I was able to control my blood sugar through diet 
-1	I was worried that the large mass on my neck was cancerous, but I remembered that my sister had the same problem when she was a kid. It was merely inflamed lymph nodes.
1	A neighbor came down with chicken pox in 4th grade. I knew that since I had had it in 3rd grade, I couldn't catch it again.
1	I am unsure about a time in my life where I was knowledgeable about health or medical issues.  
1	Discussions with my doctor. I've been forced to learn a lot. She no longer needs to tell me about my issues because I'm familiar with them
-1	well there was a time that I went to the doctor, and he started talking about when I was at the mental health institution and he told me that I would like it but I told him I been already and didn't. they also say I have bipolar which I don't believe
1	There was a time when a volleyball player fell on her ankle wrong and I was able to diagnose that she sprained her ankle. 
1	About 5 years ago, I was hospitalized for a colon embolism. I Stayed 3 months in a hospital and throughout that time I learned a good bit of medical terminology that I know now.
1	My wife has tons of health issues.  I can explain to people what is going on with her.  I also got an A in my health class I took for my college degree.
1	My father had lung cancer.  I went with him to a lot of his doctor visits.  I got to hear a lot about his condition and I picked up a lot just listening from the nurses.
-1	My sister had cancer and I was the one in charge of communicating with the doctor's about her care. She was on a lot of different medications and had to have multiple procedures so it gave me a quick education about medicine and hospital procedures.
1	When my children are sick, I understand the difference between a viral infection and bacterial. I know that they do not need to see a doctor for a simple cold as antibiotics are ineffective.
1	None of these questions, that's for sure. My knowledge of medical issues was frequently demonstrated while answering questions from clients and completing their medical claims 
1	I knew what my doctor was talking about when discussing vitamin D deficiency. The medical literature is inconclusive about some diseases/conditions that are improved with vitamin D supplementation. But I know which ones are from personal experience.
-1	knowing signs of panic attacks and what to do when I get one. 
1	Going to the hospital of my own accord. I was sure to refuse any service that I did not need, or felt would impair myself.
-1	I got an intestinal parasite and ended up the ER and off work for 2 weeks.  I had to do a lot of research about it as I hadn't ever heard of it.  It made me much more aware of my health. 
1	When I was pregnt with my 4th child I had some abnormal markers appear on an ultrasound. I was told they were choroid plexus cysts and a calcium deposit on the heart. I was aware of both of these conditions and was prepared when the doctor explained them.
1	After trying to clean my ears I noticed that I could not hear out of them. I chose not to freak out, as there is a simple solution to fix this by putting warm water and hydrogen peroxide in the ear to clear it out.
1	This doesn't count? Okay...well, I have hypothyroidism, and I know my symptoms, and I know when I'm under medicated, and need to go in for another blood test and a raise in medication levels.  I also know that synthetic levo doesn't work for me, but tubal thyroid does.
1	I was asked about conditions in my human biology class and I managed to do very well in that class. I also demonstrated I knew what was wrong with me when I was stabbed in the stomach and why I had to get surgery/
-1	I had strep throat, knowing the effects I knew I had it
1	I work at a hospital.
1	A friend was having chest pains and pain in their left arm, which indicates a possible heart attack, so we called 911 and got him appropriate help. 
-1	my glands in my neck were swollen. it led me to believe that I had strep throat
-1	When I had to have a discussion with a doctor about health issues my son had I was able to answer questions and present information effectively.
1	I chose to have my children vaccinated.  I understand the benefits of vaccination, and do not believe there is credible evidence that they are harmful.
1	I went in for a uterine fibroid removal and I researched the procedure beforehand. I followed all of the instructions in the paperwork and was prepared for the procedure and recovery.
1	Blood test results, thyroid issues, grandpa had cancer and I took care of him for a time. 
-1	I had a time when my dad was showing signs of cancer. I told him to go the doctor and he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. I knew the signs from a friend of mine who had it and I knew what to look for with my dad.
1	
-1	No need to describe
-1	A time in life where I showed my health knowledge was when someone was having a seizure in the super market. I showed them how to put something in the child's mouth to save their tongue
1	Taking care of my invalid Mother for 8 years. I felt like her nurse at times.
1	A doctor tried to take my appendix out while I was traveling abroad. I decided to not have it done there and commute a day to a better hospital because my stomach pain and symptoms had lasted for weeks and I thought appendicitis had a quicker onset. 
1	I taught a legal class that touched on some issues regarding health regulation.
1	I am good at providing first aid.  I had a friend fall and I taught them how to wrap their wrist.
1	My dad has had three heart attacks and two blood clots.
1	My doctor had a receptionist come in and read over my blood results last time I was at the doctor. She sat down for 20 minutes and read over what everything meant and my results. Now I know how to read all of my results. 
1	When my son was born. I got thrown headfirst into the world of what could be wrong versus what is wrong. I researched a lot, asked my doctor a lot of questions, and over time I have become more and more confidant about my knowledge.
1	I have two small children which really makes you learn about all different types of illnesses and which ones are serious and which are not.  Any time there is a rash, bump, cold, fever, throwing up, you are basically researching to see what it might be.
1	When I was pregnt, I was able to track my blood pressure and other symptoms. That helped me be able to determine my risk for pre-eclampsia, etc.
1	I have been able to help friends out by telling them their headaches were most likely caused from not drinking enough water.
-1	I do work at a dental office so in some way I have a small degree of the medical business as a whole but most of this knowledge is just common sense.
1	I am not sure what this question is asking of me. 
1	I went to college and studied biology and was pre-med. I learned a lot about both science as well as medicine.
1	I broke my wrist and had surgery and had to get certain pain medication and had to understand how it affected my body. 
-1	I knew right way I had kidney stones. 2nd time I had it. 
-1	Once when I had surgery on my tooth. 
1	I tore my ACL while in college and immediately knew based upon other coursework with sports psychology and injury prevention. 
1	Was in the hospital, asked a series of questions, the nurse asked me if I was a doctor. I am not.
-1	Earache
1	I helped my mother make informed decisions about treatment when she was diagnosed with cancer. I felt that she left the conversation feeling more comfortable and better informed.
1	I had cancer and am in remission
1	I was having an ache in my foot after I fell off my porch. I did some testing on where the pain was an determined it was just a sprain and not a break. 
1	I am completely ashamed of my lack of medical awareness.
-1	I went to school for medical assisting a few years back. I learned a lot of medical terminology and atomy, but I'm still pretty bad at math and statistics. Also I worked for Aet Healthcare where I deal in insurance lingo and gain more and more knowledge about health conditions every day. 
1	I had an allergic reaction a few years ago. Because of my previous history with a reaction, I knew it could be serious and I needed to get to the ER. I had my mother take me.
-1	A few years ago I had some pain in my side that would go off and on. I googled and searched and I found out through symptoms that it could be a gall bladder. Sure enough it was and I was able to have it taken care of
-1	Not had much experience due to my young age I suppose 
1	When I had a job working with kids. I could tell when the kids where sick even when they didn't tell me.
-1	Any time I have to go to the doctor I express my knowledge of whatever is wrong with me. Other than that, I can't think of any time because I am not knowledgeable about the topic. I have had MRSA and stitches in my face though, so I learned some things about both accidents there.
-1	NO experience with these.
1	I was able to assess pain I had in my abdomen as not heart problems, but gall bladder problems based on what others told me they had experienced and from what I had read.
1	My wife was feeling sick and having a prior knowledge of kidney stones, I was able to asses her situation and help her through her pain and passing the stone.
-1	I worked as a C for many years and I currently work with elderly clients. I do that every day.
-1	I HAVE HAD A LOT OF THEM
1	I was misdiagnosed for having a hernia when I had blood cancer.  I knew the symptoms of cancer and identifiedthat what I was experiencing was more than just a hernia.  I contacted an oncologist and self referred which led to my diagnosis of a highly aggressive cancer. 
1	I suffer from seasol allergies and have become kept adept at knowing what's going on with medicines and pollen counts.
-1	i was told to diet and monitor sugar levels and blood pressure. So i had to learn to read labels correctly and know exactly how much sugar i was consuming. Also need to monitor my blood pressure and change things that effect the blood pressure to rise.
1	I needed to care for an elderly parent so having knowledge of things like diabetes and blood pressure were important at the time.  I needed to know what was the acceptable blood sugar range and especially what to do if it got too high or more importantly too low.
1	I was able to demonstrate my knowledge when talking with my PCP about getting on a new medication. I was able to present some evidence from literature to her and explain why I thought the medication was worth a try. She agreed and we had successful trial of the medication.
-1	I don't really know much but I did the math. I tried to figure out the best way to go about this and give the right answer
1	I have bad health. I have many diseases.  I have demonstrated knowledge by experience and reasearch.
1	My husband experienced colon cancer. I helped him keep track of the treatments.
1	I felt a lump on my leg and didn't know what it was. I decided to wait and see if it got worse. It didn't get worse and didn't really change or grow. So, I didn't bother with it and haven't gone to a doctor.
1	watched my mom endure years of treatment to die of cancer at age 40. had parathyroid removed 2 yrs ago
1	When I developed an abscess above my gum line i suspected it was from a recent root cal. I studied the information of abscess's and found that an improper root cal could cause this and also looked at self treatment. When I went to my doctor for antibiotics he was happy that I had done the right things for self treatment until I could be seen.
-1	Two days after I gave birth to my daughter I developed postpartum preeclampsia. My blood pressure and heart rate were dangerously high. I thought this illness could only happened during pregncy, not after.
-1	I have a interest in learning so I read magazines about different health issues 
-1	I used to work at hospital.
-1	My ex had a grand mal seizure. I knew this because of the symptoms. He yelled out first then started shaking. I immediately made sure that the area was safe so that he wouldn't injure himself during that episode. I called 911 because those types of seizures can be deadly. 
1	I had to ahve bloos sugar tolerance tests. I at the time fully udnerstood what the purpose of insluin was and how it affects blood suagr and the relatd issues.
1	none that i can think of
1	I was getting pain in my elbow and I thought it may be tendonitis. I rested it and applied ice. Eventually it went away.
-1	I work out 5 days a week for 45-60 minutes each workout. I I take care of myself by watching what I eat daily 
1	I started a job at a hospital working with patients with mental illness. I was able to catch on quite quickly to medications and side effects as well as co-existing conditions because I had heard of many of them. 
-1	Since I have asthma. I have gained knowledge on how to prevent them and altertive meds that would help in case of a flair up. 
-1	Anytime that I treated my younger brother growing up, I felt like I knew a little something. He told me his symptoms and I would get the proper medicine for him. I would sometimes have to take him to the doctors office as well.
1	I have regularly gone to the doctor and read health information. 
1	When I gave birth to my daughter she had low blood sugar. My husband was extremely worried, but I told him that was fairly common.
-1	I took many classes in social medical sciences, so I know something about medicine. My wife is also a nurse. 
1	I caught a mistake on a test written on a hospital hand out at the hospital.
1	I have never had any health or medical issues, I just like to be well versed in medical terminology and issues.
1	I had surgery for my ACL and had to choose between two different types of ACL replacements - allograft or autograft, and I chose the allograft. 
-1	I diagnosed myself with a health anxiety disorder. A form of anxiety called ocd.
1	Changing my diet and using iodine to solve my health problems when I was 29 with no help from a doctor.
1	My cousin was diagnosed with the same hormone problem I have, and I was able to give her many tips on how to combat it based on things I have learned
1	When I took my grandmother to the hospital she received documentation for her results. I had to use my knowledge to figure out the readings.
-1	I had a fever of 100. I knew I didn't need to treat it at that temperature because the fever aids in fighting off the infection and is not harmful at those degrees. 
1	I was diagnosed with a genetic disorder and routinely have to explain to other doctors what the condition is and what it is caused by.
-1	taking health classes and friends in medical fields
-1	I was actually a pharmacy tech for awhile and had to make medications for sick people. 
1	I have been on a low-carb lifestyle for 10 years. I learned how to count carbs, how to calculate how long I should exercise, and how to estimate how long my weight loss would take. It was a rewarding experience.
-1	Last year I diagnosed my own health problem by researching it online. When I went to the doctor i didn't tell him what I thought my health problem was, I just let him diagnose me. he came up with the same diagnosis I did.
1	I have hypothyroidism.  I was able to understand my new medications and condition because of my open relationship with my doctor and doing my own research.  I understood that my condition means that I have to take medicine to regulate my thyroid and I understand what I'm at risk for because of it.
1	I have read scientific articles on new medical research
-1	I have kids and have taken them to the doctors. So somethings I know and some I don't.
1	My knowledge of health issues largely related to food and exercise. I go to the gym regularly and track my eating habits. I was able to lose 35 lbs exercising my knowledge of health. 
-1	A friend was feeling sickly and I asked him what he'd been eating. He told me normal items. I asked him to try and cut back on fatty foods, and he started feeling better. That helped him, and I knew that him eating a ton of fat was making him feel horrible.
-1	I got my mother back to normal after giving her sweet icing after her blood sugar went downhill after taking cold medicine. She was in a state of a diabetic coma or the start of one.
1	I helped my friend who ha a high risk pregncy similar to mine. 
-1	It's kind of gross, I was over at my brother in law's house and his kids were running around and playing.  The youngest, Finn, had a red mark on his arm that looked really familiar to me.  I didn't want to say anything but it looked like ringworm.  I'm pretty paranoid about ringworm since I foster cats and volunteer with a cat rescue group and have to be vigilant about it.
1	The first instance that comes to mind occurred a few years ago. My brother was starting to become quite unhealthy in a multitude of ways. So I told him that him weighing as much as he did, was making him at further risk for diabetes and heart disease.
1	Taking care of my children.  I have been able to diagnose when they are sick, when they need a doctor, or just some Tylenol.
1	When my stepfather was diagnosed with stage IV lung cancer, I was able to identify a trial at MD Anderson for which he qualified.
1	By using basic mathematics, reading carefully and ensuring I have all the information I need to make a good decision. 
1	Discussing options to deal with pain
-1	WHEN I DIDNT HAVE INSURANCE I HAD TO STITCH UP A GASH IN MY LEG.
-1	I once took a CPR class and taught myself to learn quickly where the windpipe is and how the air moves through the lungs. My demonstration on a doll was a far as it went, but it meant a lot to me to learn. 
-1	I have a basic knowledge of health because I was raised by my dad who was a doctor for over thirty years.
-1	I have no knowledge and I will not demonstrate any of it, because I can't.
1	Last fall I thought I had gas pain for a couple nights in a row. Once the pain got severe I looked online and saw my symptoms sounded more like gallstones. I texted a friend who had her gallbladder removed recently and she agreed with me. I saw my doctor a couple days later who did an ultrasound and confirmed I needed my gallbladder removed.
-1	My mother was in and out of the hospital with various health ailments throughout my growing up. You learn pretty quickly how the game of medicine works. 
1	My roommate was interested in a fad diet and I explained to her the dangers of the diet and how lower caloric intake and exercise are guaranteed to be healthier and work better than the diet she was researching.
-1	I was put on antidepressants that had terrible side effects. After doing research I determined a milder better drug for me. 
-1	If I stay healthy I will not need medical attention. Ginger!
1	I hurt my knee a few years back and it was on the weekend, so I made a doctor appointment for Monday. I researched basically everything about it and when I went to the doctor, he basically told me everything I already knew in order to care for my knee. 
1	I discussed with my doctor whether or not a mammogram was necessary based upon my age, family history and the current recommendations.
1	When I was pregnt, I had to decide whether to have further testing done on my son in utero. The doctor said the chance of there being a serious problem was very slim so he advised me not to have in invasive procedure. After talking to my husband and looking up info, I decided to follow his advice.
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health when I told my doctor what I knew about an illness. He said I knew more than he expected.
1	I was experiencing sharp pain in a sensitive area.  Rather than just call my doctor right away I looked online, collated data from a few reputable sources, and self-diagnosed.  I knew precisely what to do.  I did go see the doctor when it just got worse, all they really did was confirm my diagnosis, confirm that what I was doing was the best course of action, and send me home.
-1	I constantly have to remind doctors that I'm not allowed to have MRIs because I have metal pins in my chest
-1	I wouldn't really say that I have a sound knowledge of health or medical issues.  I do have the ability to learn quickly and to understand information that is explained to me.  I'm not good with math so, percentages need to be given to me in a flat number.
-1	
1	My boyfriendx has sleep apnea and together we researched everything about it, from what kind of drugs can cause it to what kind of food to avoid before bedtime to make the apnea better
1	Having a baby.  I researched everything and anything.  I also had a few issues with placenta previa, which led to more research and questions.
1	My son had open heart surgery when he was one month old. My oldest son had a condition we were uble to diagnose starting at 3 and continuing all the way up the 10 (was the last flare-up). The doctor picked one but we still aren't sure. I also work in an optical lab dealing with eye health.
1	I had surgery on my hamstring and I knew what my injury was before I even saw a doctor. I asked questions about the surgery making sure I knew all the details. I also always ask about medications knowing what works or me and what doesn't.
1	I am a medical biller so I deal with a wide array of issues.
-1	I dont know much about health or medical issues. I once thought I had something wrong with me and was positive thats what it was, until I went to a doctor and was told what was actually wrong with me. 
1	I have a background in addiction counselor.  I have taken some classes over health care and medical issues.  I have been sick a lot too. 
1	When I had a severe injury.  I was on several medications at a time and had to organize what to take and how much.  I needed to read them carefully. 
-1	i look at youtube videos for information 
1	Last night I watched a basketball game and wondered if Tony Parker tore his ACL
-1	My mother, who lives with me, developed a skin rash on her neck. It lingered longer than it should have, and was not responsive to most OTC creams or lotions. I searched online for information best matching her symptoms, and discovered that she had eczema. A doctor's visit confirmed it.
1	I was away on a trip and I was having foot problems and was not able to get to a doctor until I got home. Using online resources I was able to diagnose plantar faicia, and when i got back and check it out it is what I had.
1	I discovered lower risk of side effects of a competitor drug in the same class and recommended that my physician prescribe it to me instead.
1	i don't really have any
-1	My dad has diabetes I am able to help him control his sugar
1	I felt unwell, extremely tired. I asked the doctor to test my thyroid and the results came back normal. The doctor prescribed me anti-depression mediciation, which I decided not to take. Instead, I saw a different doctor who diagnosed me as insulin resistant. 
1	At work, I recognized that someone was having a diabetic episode before they could say it. I recognized the signs from my mother, and asked if they needed something like peanut butter to eat. They did, and were very grateful.
1	Just day to day living - having kids, taking care of my own health.  Most of these questions are simple math.  
1	I have Lupus, I often have to demonstrate my knowledge of medical issues. Recently I had a flare and was not home but traveling, I had to explain to the treating physician my condition and my treatment plan. 
-1	When going to the doctor, I knew that I was having symptoms, so needed to have a test for a UTI.
1	I demonstrated a knowledge of medical issues when I knew I was pregnt. I missed my period, and figured that I was pregnt. 
1	My brother was sick with extreme thirst and fatigue. I recognized that he possibly had type 1 diabetis
1	I have been able to maintain a steady diet of high protein and slow digesting carbs by following nutrition guidelines. This has allowed me to have more energy throughout the day for work and exercise. 
1	My father was having pain in one of his legs.  I told him it could be a thrombosis and when he went to the doctor he got a scan and found out that that was what he had.
1	My father recently had a heart attack and I was the one who spoke to the doctors after they put stents in his heart. I was responsible in helping him divide his pills and mage his medications afterwards, 
1	I had a back injury that caused some paralysis, and even though my doctor thought it might be MS, I was convinced it was sciatica and a bulging disk. After being referred to a neurologist, that's what it turned out to be.
1	When I was in high school, I was very involved in a medical organization that helped train upcoming nurses and doctors. We studied the parts of the body and the most common diseases across the globe. I even competed in a competition against students from other schools in showcasing our knowledge of the medical field.
-1	these questions are a bit harder to answer. I have no knowledge of these above.
1	I was recently at the dentist talking about how my teeth were hurting but I was certain it was from a bacterial gum infection.  The Dentist took a look at told me I was exactly right and got me on some antibiotics right away so I could get over the infection quickly.
1	My dad had a stroke a few years ago. Since then, I have come to know a lot about cerebral hemorrhages, strokes and physical therapy.  I now know exercises to recommend for someone in the same situation. 
1	i once went to a dermatologist and was given a prescription and i was able to have that prescription filled at walgreens. that is about the extent of my knowledge of health or medical issues. i just do what the doctor tells me to do, but i rarely go to the doctor because of cost.
-1	They're hard to understand.
-1	I took my son to the doctor for a followup blood count after his chemotherapy due to a leukemia diagnosis.  The nurse gave me the test result sheet.  I was able to understand what his counts were and if he needed a blood transfusion or not.
1	I have helped my fiance to lose weight by having him track his calorie intake
1	My mom was a nurse for sick children, so when I was younger, I'd go with her on house calls. I'd watch her take care of the kids, ask questions and learn about the health care she was providing. Some I picked up some general knowledge here and there through that.
-1	My knowledge of health issues is being aware of my own health.  When I have something wrong with me, I do research to understand it better.  
1	I diagnosed my own dandruff and cured it with holistic methods.
1	I had a slight injury in kickball that caused my knee to swell.  However, it swelled much more than it should have, and I knew it was due to another condition I have called gout.  The doctor's confirmed it by blood tests when I got it checked out.
-1	I had to determine my blood pressure when I had problems 
1	I have taken first aid courses. They have prepared me on what do to in the case of a medical emergency.
1	When I started gaining weight all of a sudden and having hot flashes at night.  I knew I was going into menopause
1	I traveled abroad and needed to take medication to prevent disease. I had to read the labels and plan out when I would take the pills in order for them to be effective
1	I took classes in law school on health care and HIPAA and what is required of emergency room care. This required me to read many case studies and learn about how health care worked.
1	With my first child I had csection.  I was told that it would be unwise and likely unsuccessful to pursue a VBAC with the birth of subsequent children.  Based on my own reasearch, I concluded that this was false.  I went on to have three very successful VBACs.
1	I have no professiol experience in the medical field. My son has a few genetic issues that keeps us very involved in doctors and hospitals. 
1	When my daughter was put on a new antidepressant I recognized that she was not responding correctly and needed to come off.  She called her doctor and he helped her taper off of it.  
1	My step daughter had a bad cough for days and she kept coughing up phlegm.  I told her that I thought she had strep throat.  She went to the doctor and it turns out I was correct.
1	I know my own body so I often will go to the doctor with a idea of what I have already. Usually the doctor will agree with that. I have also educated myself on common things in children so that I can be proactive when it comes to my childrens health. I ask the pediatrician lots of questions based on things  I already know about to show them I know my kids and what is going on. 
1	I am a physician assistant. I make decisions about medical conditions daily.
1	I broke out in a rash over most of my body. I went to the doctor about it, but they were not able to figure out the cause because the symptoms did not match anything they could think of. After spending some time researching, I went back to my doctor and requested a strep test to confirm scarlet fever. The test came back positive, the doctor said he would not have thought to check for that as the chances for it being scarlet fever is near 0 in someone like me at my age.
-1	 When I had my first son that I had Irish pregncy and I was able to understand what was going on from reading books in the Internet 
1	Being competent when a family member told us that they were diagnosed with diabetes. I was familiar and had knowledge of what diabetes was and was able to help them when picking food out and changing their lifestyle 
1	My cousin was diagnosed with a malignt brain tumor at 14. At the time, I understood the difference between benign and malignt
1	All I know is what I learned in school or reading medical stuff.  I haven't had any science classes since starting college, so it's all old except what's reported in the news or online.
-1	I have no experience, just general knowledge gained.
1	I helped keep people awake after a bad car accident until the paramedic arrived.
1	I was diagnosed with illiotibial band syndrome while training for a marathon. My knowledge of the inflammation that was being caused in my illiotibial band helped me to understand the source of my pain in the knee, and I took anti-inflammatory medication to alleviate this pain. 
-1	No experiences 
1	Recalling my prior medicine and allergies when talking to a new specialist. This helped speed up the examition process.
-1	GOOD
1	I had some problems with gout in the past. It came and went, the doctor offered to put me on a medicine that I would have to take every day instead on just taking the Indomethicin as needed. I turned him down, and my gout hasn't seriously bothered me since then (I've only had to take a few pills for it.)
1	I understand medical terminology, took atomy in high school.
1	I went to the doctors office a year ago with a grand parent to help them fill out medical forms. There were 5 pages of forms to fill out, but I didn't have any issue understanding what was being asked on the forms. I was able to help them fill out the forms without issue.
1	When I was diagnosed incorrectly with diabetes, it was because I had been weight training and taking in loads of carbohydrates. I told the doctor this but he instisted. I didn't take medication and 2 months later at a follow up after not eating as many carbohydrates I was much finer.
1	I took a nutrition class in undergrad. My health law class in law school touched upon medical procedure (but not in great detail). I have also lost about 70 pounds which demonstrates my knowledge of diet and exercise. 
1	I have a child who has had chronic nose stuffiness. I had a feeling that it was his adenoids. We saw multiple doctors who said it could be a cold, allergies or an infection. We filly we able to see an ENT who verified that it was indeed enlarged adenoids. He is scheduled to have them removed in two months.
-1	I was diagnosed with Diabetes. I learned a lot about what to do to help with it. I had to research quite a lot to understand this disease. I learned what foods to eat and how to be healthy.
1	When I took my son to the allergist and the doctor was asking me questions about my son, I was able to explain what I knew about tonsils and the impact of having them removed.
1	After the new doc had me get a bunch of blood tests to check for everything, we went over the results.  He stated that my Vit D was too low.  I told him that I had been aware of that because I wasn't drinking the amount of milk that I used to, and I don't spend a lot of time outside to get the Vit D.  We then went over how it makes me feel, and I was correct with assessing myself on that.
1	I know that when my temperature is above 100.4, I might need to consult a doctor. I also know that for my children.
1	When I was frustrated with my doctor in the small town where I lived with my parents, I did research online to find a better doctor in a larger town. That demonstrated my willingness to look into different types of doctors and treatments. 
-1	Listening to my body. When I know something isn't right I Google it. Then if it's a concern, I call my doctor. So, because of Google, I found out I had a fibroid and the doctor pin-pointed it right away during an exam instead of poking me.
1	When i was diagnosed with meningitis. I actually told my doctor that I believed I had it prior to getting  spil tap done. He agreed, sent me to have the test done and it was confirmed.
1	My father has diabetes, so I am constantly learning about it in order to help him stay on track with his disease. When we go to the doctor for his diabetes, I have to know what the doctor is talking about so that I can assist in making the best decision to mage is diabetes.
1	My father fell from our roof a few years ago, and so all of the medical information that he had given me came into play since he was incapacitated. Just knowing which questions to ask, the terms the doctors were using, and what I should expect was extremely helpful. 
1	
1	I have children and I am good at knowing when to take them in or not. Also, I have had several surgeries which have given me a good feel for how a hospital is run and the various diagnostic tests that people take.
1	Growing up, my grandfather was sick on and off for much of my childhood. Whether it was an issue with his heart, his kidneys, or his prostate, my mother was constantly traveling from home to take him to the doctor or to the hospital. She would explain what was happening to me as simply as she could. As I got older, and entered young adulthood, I'm able to understand medical issues thanks to having been around them for much of my life.
1	When I was seen at the doctor for wanting to lose weight, she advised me that my blood pressure what high for the first time in my life. She explained what effect that has on me and ways to lower it without medication. I was able to explain that information to my husband and take action on it. 
-1	When I work every day I work with medical issues at the hospital I work with. I had a friend's father suffer from bipolar d/o and I was able to advise the treatment course based on my professiol experience with it and the medicine. 
1	I have popped my shoulder back in to place once
1	My daughter had a lot of medical issues at birth.  I did a lot of research and asked the drs a lot of questions to gain understanding of her conditions.
-1	The only time I can think of was when I was in intensive care and the nurse was talking to me about different pain medications, and I did already know a fair amount about them just from talking to people who take them regularly, it made me feel a little more at ease in a tense situation not to hear long drug mes being thrown about that I didn't know.
1	Right after my grandfather had moved into assisted living, I was visiting at dinner time and he checked his blood sugar, which was at 450. The staff wanted to call an ambulance for him, and he refused, and everyone got upset. I was able to explain that my grandpa was fully coherent, and that while that is a dangerous level, for him after 20 years of being uncontrolled and almost always over 300, the value that is an emergency has gone up, and whether he is in need of the hospital is more dependent on how coherent and coordited he is. 
1	I'm not sure if I really have a knowledge of health or medical issues. A few years ago, I started eating a lot better because my dad had a massive heart attack, and started learning more about how sugars and bad fats were affecting my life experience, as well as the sty little nicotine habit I'd picked up. So the knowledge is really more overall.
-1	When I had my gullbladder removed. I thought my appendix burst
-1	I helped to deliver a baby in a parking lot. This required a bit of medical knowledge to pull off successfully.
1	I have been able to look up symptoms of having a flu and was able to correctly align the symptoms to show that it was the most likely cause of not feeling well.
1	Earlier this year I had to fill out some forms for my insurance.  I had no idea what they were asking for so I just guessed.  This is when I figured out I knew very little about the health care and insurance industry.
1	Nothing really just common sense and things i have learned over time from various sources.
1	I was having trouble breathing. I went to visit my doctor. I was able to successfully vigate all the test and result that she gave me. 
-1	I have many years of experience working in health care. I also have been in and out of doctors since childhood.
1	All I can think of is various experiences with my mother, who as I mentioned is disabled following a stroke. Monitoring her blood pressure and food intake as well as other issues of her care.
-1	i helped my grqndfather with his medications
1	I am currently taking classes for medical coding. I have passed A&P 1 and 2 with an A. I've always been interested in the healthcare field. 
1	I do a lot of research on my own regarding health issues, honestly a lot of times I do so to avoid going to the doctor. Also, I became very familiar with a lot of health issues while my daughter was in the hospital for several months.
1	I was able to research a medical condition ahead of my doctors appointment, based on previous test results that I had already seen. I was able to correctly predict the diagnosis.
1	I knew how to apply presuure to a wound to stop bleeding
1	i felt this way when i was working as writer for an SEO office. we had many medical clients that i had to write for. i did a lot of research and became very knowledgable in many areas. 
1	I had to learn how my weight is affecting my health. I learned how my fatty liver is dangerous and what my target goals are to lessen my risk. I learned how to reach those goals.
-1	20 yrs in the health care field. ranging from the ER to surgery. 
1	About 10 years ago I started having abdomil pain. Instead of going golfing, which would have been a horrible idea, I went to the hospital and told them that my appendix was getting ready to rupture. I wasn't entirely sure but the symptoms seemed to line up. Sure enough it had perforated by the time I got into surgery.
-1	I visited a friend that had a bypass and i was asking him about the surgery and what they did, he didn't really know, so i explained it to him.
1	I have a little bit of medical terminology knowledge because I have experience in the medical field from when I was in the military.  I understand enough and what I don't, I can look up to find the meaning for understanding. 
1	I have had uriry tract infections a few times, enough that I recognize the symptoms and am familiar with treatment. I also know that the kidneys can be susceptible to infection in such cases, so I went to the doctor when I had lower back pain.
1	I have shown a basic knowledge of health throughout my pregncy. I am 9 months pregnt, and whenever I needed further clarification I would ask questions.
-1	I feel like something that showed my knowledge was when I explained to my spouse that genders are suppose to clean themselves a certain way.
1	I knew that ibuprofen and acetminophen are different
-1	I think that what gave me the most knowledge was when my dad had a heart attack and we all were told of his chances and life expectancy after the surgery. It really hit home to a lot of us because at the time several of us were still smoking and that was the first thing the doctor said we should all stop doing. 
1	My husband that passed away had diabetes and wounds that required care. He also had kidney failure and other things. I was very attentive to the doctors and learned a million things about how to take care of him and myself. 
1	Recently I have been losing weight. I have done this be operating in a caloric deficit. Even without exercising I have lost weight.
-1	I was able to treat my cold by drinking lots of fluids.
1	one time I was getting a prescription for anti biotics. the doctor asked if i took it before and i said yes. she asked if i had constipation with it and i said it wasn't too bad. I told her that I knew that if I took pro biotics as well it would help replenish my gut flora and my digestion would be healthier. she agreed.
1	In a previous career I was supervising residential clients. I recognized from a client's symptoms (chest pain, numbness down his left side) that he may be having a heart attack. I was able to get him medical attention quickly and he suffered no long-term effects.
1	My dad was sick in the hospital. When the doctor came in to talk to us about what was going on I understood most of what he was talking about
1	I think just living through a medical problem, not even your own, helps you gain knowledge. I learned a lot about cancer watching my mother go through it. You learn about the problems, and things that drs dont tell you
1	I'm pregnt and I just recently chose how to have my baby. My doctor gave me several options, I did the research and I decided how I wanted to proceed.
1	"I know how to mage my asthma well enough by now that it's exhausting if I see a new doctor and they try to give me asthma pamphlets. I went to an urgent care once to refill a prescription before a trip, and the woman treating me tried to lecture me about how to mage my asthma and handed me ""what is asthma?"" pamphlets. There was literally no reason for this; my asthma had been fine for years and I'd heard everything already."
1	My dad got diagnosed with diabetes so I helped him come up with some meals that won't be bad for his blood sugar.
1	I recently went to the dentist and was able to easily describe my tooth pain and also tell him which tooth # it was according to knowing the tooth chart
-1	My own experience going to the doctors over the years and learning as I go.  I do research on the internet.  
1	When in a pharmacy or store searching for over-the-counter medicine, it is up to the individual to decide what they require. No doctor is available to give advice, only the knowledge you currently have, and the information on the labels. From having children, I've grown accustomed to reading and interpreting these labels on children's medicine.
1	I had a pain medication that I needed to take after having my wisdom teeth removed.  Because I did not read the package insert, I did not realize that I was having a negative reaction to the medicine at first.
-1	I studied about cannibis oil and COPD for my mom. She has been taking it and has improved greatly. 
-1	When a friend cut his thumb really badly. I was able to help him to get the bleeding to stop so that I could get him to the emergency room.
1	When my nephew ate peanut butter he started having an allergic reaction but because I knew about his epipen I was able to take it out and help him stop the reaction.
-1	When I was being tested for fibroid tumors. I had done my research on this topic and was educated enough to make a decision regarding the surgical procedure. 
1	In addition to having 2 children and 3 minor surgeries, I graduated with a degree in exercise science that required me to take multiple atomy/physiology classes. After graduation I worked in both a general practitioners office and in an orthopedic surgeon's office. I was exposed to plenty of medical issues there.
-1	"I had to take my grandmother to the doctor's office. I was the one who had to 'translate"" between her and the doctor. I ended up processing a lot and being able to explain it to her. "
-1	the only knowledge i have is both my mom and dad are in the medical feild
1	After injuring my core area when weightlifting I rightly assumed that I had somehow strained a muscle. After visiting the hospital my assumptions were proven correct.
1	When I had my daughter and my water broke, I knew something was wrong. I had done research on what the liquid would look like and my liquid was different. I explained this to the nurse thinking that I had an infection based on the fluid color and she didn't take me seriously but then the doctor diagnosed me with an infection of the amniotic sac. 
1	Sometimes I like to look up information of symptoms before I go to a doctor. I tell them what's wrong (the symptoms) and I try to make an educated guess as to what the problem might actually be. Many times I get it right.
1	Kind of a vague question to ask about. When I had appendicitis, I was able to process the information and knew what the surgery and recovery would be like without being told. I made arrangements before hand that would help. 
1	I have a rash on my leg. I was able to determine that it was actually eczema. 
-1	My daughter had fallen off our couch and we took her to the hospital.  On the ride there, I checked her pupils, her arms and legs, made her follow my hand from side to side and up and down, smiled at her to see if she smiled back, and made sure she seemed well overall.  The ER doctor did the exact same thing to her when we got her there, so I was able to ease my worry on the ride there by checking all these things so I knew she was okay.
1	I have not had that experience.
1	I have successfully diagnosed patients in the past. I have also known when to bring myself in.
1	I advocated for myself around getting what I needed to accurately assess certain symptoms I was having. I was on a diagnostic schedule for two years. When the hospital said they were certain that it wasn't malignt, I advocated for stepping back to regular screenings.
1	I don't really have any.  If I have a question in this area I ask my friends that work in healthcare.  I have mainly concerned myself with studying what foods and how much I should exercise in order to have good health.  
1	I had lyme disease and I diagnosed myself. I had to travel 100 miles to a doctor that would give me the right type of tests to find it. The local doctor just gave me one test and said I didn't have it.
1	I guess school would be one instance. Just learning about the body and other issues.
1	I eat healthy and try to maintain a healthy lifestyle so I like to learn about health.
1	My son has Diabetes, type 1. I have had to deal with him since he was born (he is also Down Syndrome). He's had surgeries and required care that needs me to learn about medicine.
1	I don't really have anything fantastic to share, other than knowing CPR at school. So when someone there choked, I was able to help them out pretty quickly.
-1	I have worked in medical billing before and had to be knowledgable of the terminology and basic understanding was required, I guess that would be the height of what I know because I have never had any interest in being in a medical profession.
-1	everytime i have to go with my mother to the doctor and explain to her whats going on.
1	My uncle recently had a stent placed in his heart. I was able to understand and know what the different percentages of blockages were in his heart as well as his ejection fraction.
1	I was having a routine checkup with my primary physician. He informed me that I may be at risk for a certain ailment. I told him I was aware since my father also suffers from it. He was impressed that I took the initiative.
1	One time i had hyperthyroid diagnosed. I was a bio major in college. We actually had an endocrinology class. I understood the terms used by the doctor
1	I had a rash that I thought was caused by skin contact to my shoes.  My doctor confirmed this in a test.
1	When I last saw a doctor, I was told that it's important that I get exercise at least three times a week. Ever since then, I've been religiously working out three or more times a week. Since then, I've had more energy and felt happier about life in general.
1	I have had swelling of my face for quite a few years now. When I first got this, I was told to take a steroid. I had no clue why I would have to take a steroid. Well I now know hat steroids actually help to reduce swelling
1	While i was pregnt there is a lot of info that you need to know. I was very well-informed. 
1	After having been diagnosed with a medical condition that might need surgery, I have read and learned enough material to possibly avoid getting the surgery.
1	Well, when my dad got Parkinson's disease, due to my neuroscience background, I was able to help him understand his illness better.  I not only provided him with literature but also guided him through what we believe is happening on a cellular/neurol level.  He was very appreciative and later decided to learn more about it on his own.  
1	Going to doctor's appointments during my pregncy, plus appointments for my son.
1	Having family members go through major health issues, i.e. Cancer, Diabetes
-1	I had a ganglion cyst and when i went to the doctor for a check up,he was very impressed to know that i had all the information about it.
1	I've had to go to the doc for various things for myself and others. I try to research what I can when I can.
1	I get sinus infections fairly often. For this reason, I have to switch up antibiotics and steroids so that I do not get used to them. It is important that I know the side effects of the medications I  am on because each one is different.
1	My brother and I were playing soccer in our backyard. He was barefoot and when he went to kick the ball, he accidentally hit his toe in a way that caused it to break. I knew from my experience with a broken toe, the only thing you can really do it tape it to another toe to stabilize it while it heals. I helped my brother tape the toe to the one next to it with medical tape.
-1	My wife was pregnt and we had to keep track of her and the baby. It taught us how to keep track of weight and other measures.
1	My medical and health knowledge is really limited to what I experienced in my life.  We've been relatively healthy so I don't have an extensive back ground. 
1	I was diagnosed with MS because I was having random muscle issues and some twitching.  This call was also based on the fact that my mom has MS.  Although the Neuro told me as such I used my knowledge and understanding that MS is a disease of exclusion and that there was a decent chance I did not actually have the ailment.  As it turned out I did not.
1	When I explained to my mom the effects of my GERD, and the risks I had.  It took a lot of convincing that a condition I have wasn't actually cancer, or even likely to lead to cancer, it was just pre-cancer.
1	I can often pinpoint what is wrong with friends just by having spent lots of time around a doctor.
1	When my son was an infant, he was very sick and showing signs of dehydration. After not being able to get him to eat, I took him to the emergency room
1	Started developing hard lumps in my arms.  Had them checked out and found out they were lypomas.  No risk of cancer but they can cause pain so I had them removed.
1	I have watched my grandparents age over the last few years and they lived healthy lives but between the four of them they have experience Alzheimers, cancer including leukemia and some kind of uterus issue, a stroke and digestive issues so I have picked up alot of information that way. 
1	I had a bad gallbladder. One day I noticed that the whites of my eyes had a yellowish tinge to them. I immediately went to the emergency room because I knew that this was a problem.
1	I lost a kidney and was in and out of the hospital for close to 6 months due to complications with the surgery. I picked up quite a few bits of medical knowledge during that experience
1	My normal temperature is around 96.5 so I knew when my temperature was 101 I should go to the emergency room. I was boiling.
1	The last time I went to the doctor and she told me about my blood work, I was able to understand what she was saying 
-1	I do this almost daily, I am an nurse. Its part of my job
1	My friend messaged me freaking out because on of her clients said a patch on her skin looked like skin cancer. She sent me a picture and I immediately recognized it as exzema. She felt a little better but went to her doctor to check and it was exzema
1	I monitor my blood pressure and glucose levels. I use electronic aids.
1	My mom had breast cancer and the lingo and language was part of daily life. I worked in the exercise science field for a while. My wife is a physical therapist working at an old folks home and the lingo is part of my daily life.
1	When I was experiencing chest pain and arm pain and knew to get to the hospital since it could indicate a heart attack. Don't worry, it wasn;t though.
1	N/a
1	
1	I think just in general, knowing when to go to the doctor's or not. I don't need to go for every cold or flu I get, but if I don't start seeing improvement after a few days, I know it's a good idea to go.
1	I have Hep C.  I found this out after doting blood.  I did quite a bit of reading on the diseases because of this.
1	I have high blood pressure during pregncy. My doctor suggested inducing me a few days before my due date due to this fact. I agreed with him because I understood the risks associated with high blood pressure during pregncy. 
1	I do not have much knowledge of health or medical issues other than what has persolly happened to me which is not much.
1	I have knowledge of mental illness because I have anxiety.  When I go to my psychiatrist or general doctor I am knowledgable about medicines and their side effects and what may or may not be right for me.
-1	I was assisting my grandfather with care and noticed that his feet were swelled.  I knew that could mean heart or kidney problems.  I called the doctor and explained the situation.  He was admitted with kidney failure.
1	I can't think of a time that I was the expert in the room or was able to demonstrate more health or medical knowledge that others around me.
-1	i'm not sure, i've never had a major medical issue or event or anything.
1	My father takes a baby aspirin every day to reduce the chance of heart attack. I provided him the copy of the origil paper and worked out the effect size and showed him how he was actually reducing the chance of heart attacks by an insanely small amount. I did this so he would save money instead of throwing it at Bayer.
1	When I had a nerve pain in my back and leg, I went to a specialist for treatment.
1	I would say anytime someone asks me about pregncy. As funny as it is I have 4 children so I always kind of feel knowledgeable in that area, most times I have experienced it pretty much all/ 
1	I knew enough to get tested for STDs after my last relationship.
-1	Was told I am pre-diabetes.  I therefore did research to learn how to lower my risks.
1	When I was taking care of my grandparents I had to keep up with their diet restrictions and medication.
1	I had a lump in my testicular. I was able to determine by its texture that it was a cyst. I went to the doctor but already knew with research the issue. 
1	When talking through my husband's lymph gland problem, I understood already what lymphoma was, as well as the fact that it would have been a highly treatable cancer. 
1	I recently had blood work done and I was given the results that showed what a normal range would be and what my actual results were.  I was able to interpret this fairly ease and see that almost all of my results were within normal parameters and to note that few areas where they were outside the normal.  
1	I don't understand this question. I will try to answer the best I can. I was experiencing horrible abdomil pain and it was like a burning sensation and stabbing knives. I remembered in health class being told all the issues in the digestive tract, and believed it to be reflux disease, which it turned out to be after testing. 
1	I read about depression a while ago and its effects, such as fatigue and a persistent loss of interest. I also read about auditory and physical hallucitions connected to psychosis.
1	"I'm remembering a time when I went to the doctor and said I had the flu. He asked ""why do you think it is the flu and not a cold?"" and using information I had gathered I explained the difference between the symptoms of the two and related them to what I was experiencing. He kind of chuckled and said ""so you know an antibiotic won't help, right? Everyone comes in here and demands an antibiotic."" I got a dose of tamiflu and left."
-1	My girlfriend was suffering from a severe iron deficiency. Her doctor ran some tests but it would be awhile before we heard about the results. So i googled and googled about possibilities and found one that was never mentioned to us before. I told my girlfriend and we were able to relax a bit more.
-1	I have had three weight loss surgeries and a female problem surgery. I had went to Mexico for two of them and had a really good experience there. I have not always understood the procedures though. I have also taken two medical term classes.
1	I have slowly learned terms over the years in my life by being in school, reading things online, and also helping my parents with their health. I enjoy talking about medical things so I also learn in my conversations. I think tv shows help too.
1	I have always had low blood pressure for most of my life. When I was on birth control pills, one of the potential side effects was higher blood pressure, but it didn't affect me. When a doctor recently proposed a medication for me that could cause high blood pressure, I told him I would be fine with taking it, because I was not concerned that mine would get too high.
1	My mom had breast cancer. I had to educate myself about it and take care of her post-surgery, as well as during chemo and radiation. 
-1	When I was a child I had open heart surgery and now as an adult I have AFIB so I have learned a lot about the heart and the issues it can have. 
1	My daughter has kidney disease and I had read everything I could about her disease before I met with her specialists. The doctors were surprised by my knowledge of the disease and possible treatments and outcomes.
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when my friend took their temperature and said it was 98 degrees and assumed that was high. I know that average temperature is 98.6. I told them this and relieved their concerns as a result of my knowledge.
1	When my dad died of kidney failure due to diabetes, I spent a long time studying diabetes, its risk factors, and its outcomes.
1	I have had a few conditions requiring surgery and a couple injuries that required a specialist. I've also had two at/high risk pregncies. 
-1	When I was pregnt with my second child I knew all the symptoms I was having of normal back pain and Braxton hicks because of being pregnt with my first child.
1	I used to do a lot of reviews on surgeon procedures, so one day my doctor showed me x-rays of some of the procedures that were going to be done to a family member. To my surprise, I knew what the charts were showing.
1	My son spit out a new food that was in his mouth, he started getting hives and itching. I knew it was an allergic reaction to that food so we gave him an epipen, benedryl and took him to the ER in case there was a secondary reaction.
1	I cared for my mother for 2 years when she was termilly ill and was able on several occasions to predict what was happening better than her dr. I extended her lifeby taking her to er and in the end accurately predicted that she needed hospice care which her dr disagreed with. I insisted and she did indeed pass 9 days later.
-1	I worked as an EMT many years ago so my children frequently call me if something is happening they think I can help with. Recently my son-in-law felt dizzy, faint, and was sweating a lot. I felt he was probably having some type of panic attack, but I erred on the side of caution and called EMS. Those were also signs of a heart attack.
1	I went to a specialist for pain that I was having in my abdomen. He insisted that I was suffering from a stomach ailment. I didn't feel like that was the case. I stopped eating dairy and my problems went away.
-1	My brother recently developed asthma. I have a long history with asthma so I am able to give him advice. In the beginning he was worried and asked many questions.
-1	I had a medical examition. I was shown the xray and had already known what was wrong before the doctor explained it to me.
1	I worked as a nurses aid for three years. 
1	I work for a health insurance company right now. So I talk to a lot of people regrading their health and medical issues. So I'd say that at this time in my life, I have a large amount of knowledge on the topic.
1	My daughter had a fever every night. I took her to the doctor twice and he said she probably had a virus. I knew this couldn't be right with the constant fever at nights. I took her to the emergency room and it turned out she had pneumonia.
-1	I WAS AN ALCOHOLIC TWELVE YEARS AGO. I KNEW IF I DIDN'T STOP I WOULD BE DEAD.
1	I heavily researched pregncy when I was pregnt with my son. I felt informed about my health and what was happening to my body.
1	I understood when I had to go to the emergency room for my grandmother's stroke. She could smell toast and had other symptoms that stood out. I immediately drove her to the hospital. 
-1	When I have gone to the doctor sometimes I have heard of what the best test would be or what they should do. Like when I went to the doctor with swollen lymph nodes and a throat that I could not swallow food with, I insisted they give me a strep test and lucky that they did because I had strep throat. 
-1	I was describing a medical test that was recommended to me for the breast cancer gene and I was explaining what it tested for to my boyfriend who was not sure what the test entailed. 
-1	I knew how to set a broken wrist at home real quick so my friend could get to the hospital without being in so much pain. My dad did it for me when I was a kid, and I remembered what he did.
1	Really just recommending a vegan (mostly raw) diet to people with health issues. If you have bad headaches and sinus issues....try giving up that sty dairy. Diabetic? Switch to a vegan diet. I can't begin to put into words how many people I know that have thanked me for recommending this after their health drastically improved without medications.
1	I went to the hospital last year for constant vomiting and I could tell the doctor my symptoms and kept track of how often I vomited. I knew how to find my temperature and knew what he was talking about for treating me for the most part. 
-1	I was diagnosed with a chronic illness. Learning about how it affects me helps explain most of my problems.
1	Family had medical issues constantly and I have read a lot of documents on it. 
-1	i have issues with afib
1	There was a friend of mine that was experiencing some pain in her legs and swelling. So I did some research and I was able to come up with a few reasons this could be. When figured them out she went to the doctor and we were right. 
1	Earlier in the survey I described my chronic vertigo, which I filly had to diagnose for myself after my then-doctor ran a bunch of expensive tests and couldn't figure out a thing. He never thought to ask if I'd recently gotten new glasses -- I had, and it turned out that they were poorly adjusted and they caused chronic eyestrain. I researched the issue myself and learned how to control the vertigo most of the time through simple self-care -- staying hydrated, getting enough rest, dealing with my anxiety disorder, taking care not to strain my eyes, etc.. I figured this all out for myself because my doctor couldn't mage.
-1	When I got Bronchitis. I knew that I had it from previous experiences. I went to the doctor and told him what I thought I had. That's what I had. I new the medicine I would get.
1	
1	I had to decide whether not to repair my torn labrum. He told me that there was a 90% chance that without the surgery I would dislocate my shoulder again and that risk increased the more I used it. In the end I decided to go ahead with the surgery. 
-1	I got diagnosed with shingles when I was 21 and I went to the doctor for it and got informed of plenty of knowledge about shingles.
1	There was one situation where a friend of mine was very sick and couldn't keep any food down, so I used my knowledge of health issues and suggested they drink an electrolyte beverage to avoid getting dehydrated. Dehydration can cause even more risks and serious illness, so it is important to keep fluids in your system, even if you can't digest food properly.
1	I haven't.
1	Whenever I have an issue that is medically related, I tend to do a lot of research.  I like being informed, even though the information may not be positive.  When I was first diagnosed with high blood pressure, I did a lot of research to find out what to do about it.  I'm not always good about doing the right things, but I do know what to do.
1	My son is allergic to peanuts and related foods.  One day he ate something that caused an allergic reaction.  I read the directions and administered an Epi-Pen dose before driving him to an urgent care center.
1	I am the primary caretaker for my elderly parents and as such taken them to their doctor appointments, administer their medications and carry out all instructions from there doctors. I have had to learn quite quickly over the past two years of all the medical conditions and treatments that affect them.
1	Knowing how people treat their diabetes
1	"When my doctor tried to force me on a synthetic thyroid medication. I had a history of not tolerating the drug well, but yet he would not refill my tural thyroid medication until I tried it. He said it ""had better research"". I unwillingly switched, and within a week demanded I be switched back to my tural thyroid medication. "
1	When writing a paper for my health class, I discussed how cholesterol is not necessarily bad. There is HDL and LDL, and the thing to worry about is LDL. Cholesterol is needed to build a lot of structures in our body, such as cell membranes. The more cholesterol we eat, the less our body has to produce it, so it is not bad at all. Cholesterol from eggs and fish are helpful in raising our HDL levels.
1	My former workplace had a wellness program benefit.  You took a health assessment online, had biometric screenings done, and then received a health outlook with specific items to work on.  Doing that made it easier for me to talk to my doctor about specific health care concerns, and what else I could be doing to reduce my risks.
1	I have a degree in biochemistry.  I have also taken some classes on physiology as well as medicine. I also have a general knowledge of the intuitive part of medicine and an understanding of medicine from a chemical standpoint. 
1	I don't have any specific experience, but I've read up on things on webMD, and have also taken a first aid course and an atomy course when I was in college.
1	I had a back injury caused by a car accident. The doctor could find nothing wrong and thought it was just some muscle or ligament problem. After a few months of therapy, he suggested I see a psychiatrist. I demanded I get an MRI because I knew it was something physical. The MRI found several ruptured disks that led to surgery.
1	Supporting my dad in the hospital when he had a heart attack - talking to doctors, figuring out best way to proceed
-1	i dont have any experiences
-1	MY experience that i had with knowledge of health is reading my blood work results. After the doctors office i came home and reread my bloodworm results. 
-1	I work as a security guard. While covering an outdoor event I had to perform CPR on someone. I had to perform for a long time before the paramedics came. When they came they told me I saved a life because if I didn't perform CPR, the person would not have made it. My training helped me to know what to do to save the life.
1	going for allergy shots, when during the waiting period did not feel great, immediately administered emergency medication and went to the doctor.
1	While seeing a new eye doctor for the first time I was able to accurately describe my condition and its potential impact on my future, the doctor was impresses by my understanding and comprehension of my condition.
1	i got an infection in my leg. I knew it wouldnt go away on its own. My doctor informed me that antibiotics would take care of it after getting it drained.
-1	Every time i go to the doctor, which is all the time now because my back is getting worse.  I have been to 4 different doctors, including specialists.  Plus, they thought I had something wrong with my enlarged liver, so I had to have a biopsy, which showed a normal liver.  
1	My mom was having problems with kidney stones, and I did some research and told her to ask the doctor about a few kinds of different treatments and preventative measures. The doctor was just treating her symptoms but did not really seem to be looking for a cause.
-1	I have learned a lot from having anxiety and panic attacks. I can help other people who describe their symptoms to me if they are similar to what I experience. 
-1	Had to give friend diabetic shot of insulin
1	My wife is a Type 1 diabetic. I have been able to knowledgeably discuss her needs with doctors, nurses and representatives from medical equipment manufacturers.
-1	There was a time when i had to help a friends father with giving him a insulin shot for his diabetes. Nobody was around and he needed his shot so i gave it to him and knew exactly how and what to do.
-1	I was having headache, coughing, and runny nose, I searched my symptom and predicted that I have the flu Influenza rather than just a code. I went to the doctor and I was right.
-1	being in the hospital for surgery and diabetic ulcers and watching and observing
-1	surgury on my back,meds and heal time.lots of doctor visits over all and nevered healed right
-1	I had to have home health care come to my house for a little over 2 months. I learned a lot about the healing process the body has to go through, things to help your body heal faster. 
-1	I would say simply knowing when and why one should take antibiotics. I have always tried my best to stay away from taking medicaiton. 
1	A man was having a heart attack at a mall and i am cpr and AED certified so i grabbed the little red box off the wall and applied the sticky pads and everything while others called 911..that man lived :)
-1	When I was diagnosed with Hodgkins Lymphoma, I quickly researched all that I could about the cancer, and quickly became VERY knowledgeable about the disease, and what to expect with the chemo treatments, as well as my survival rate.
1	I'm not really sure what you mean. I have taken college level statistics which has given me some knowledge on how to process percentages and chances.
1	I knew I needed a root cal when I needed a root cal.
1	My client was stung by a bee and I began noticing the puffiness and swelling that occurred. After witnessing his reactions I realized he was allergic to bees, which we were uware of, and I properly used an epipen on him (that was actually another clients).
1	I was taking care of my Dad and carefully monitored his sugar and diet
1	I am able to teach my girlfriend on what kinds of foods to eat or to avoid based on my experience of eating healthy my entire life. I sometimes also ask my doctor questions about certain foods to gain more knowledge on that subject of health. In addition, I have learned a lot about diabetes through my sister because she has it. I am able to educate more people on it now that I have some familiarity behind it. 
-1	While having blood clots I have to watch sitting for long periods, going on long trips, and flying for very long periods with out getting up. I have to move every few hours to prevent these clots
1	When I had the flu, I knew that it wasn't just a normal cold because I was shivering, had muscle pain, couldn't eat without vomiting, and I had a fever of 103 degrees. I knew that I needed to get to the doctor immediately because I was severely dehydrated. 
1	family members have celiac disease so much research, appointments and flares have resulted from the diagnosis
-1	When I had appendicitis, I knew before I was diagnosed based on my symptoms. I was proven correct by my doctor.
-1	I have had rotator cuff surgery in the past year.
1	I have COPD and have had a number of broken bones and have looked up a lot of things.  also am very curious and have studied everything from diets to pharmacology
1	i guess when my mom had to undergo chemo, I knew vaguely how the alpha radiation treatment worked.  I told her how some radiation is emitted but can be blocked by paper, and that alpha radiation is that type, and so the pill provides radiation to your body, while the skin kind of keeps it inside.
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues is having one of my own. I keep up with everything about my medical issues and always ask questions about it. 
-1	I knew how to read my prescription labels and take my medicine properly.
1	I manually take my moms BP to monitor it as the doctor is adjusting her meds.
1	As a lifeguard, it is imperative to know about health and medical issues. I must be aware of what to do in injury situations, as well as how to treat common injuries or illnesses I encounter.
1	Before I went to the hospital for a nervous break down, I already knew I was also Bi-Polar (thanks to the web) When I began telling them my symptoms and they filly diagnosed me with it, i wasn't shocked and already knew what I needed to deal with for life.
1	I had to get wisdom teeth removed last week. I was able to know everything about the procedure beforehand because I had 4 teeth removed before getting braces on. So I knew what to expect and how to handle it.
1	The closest I can get to an experience like that is by telling anyone who asks me for medical assistance to go to a doctor and ask them. I don't really have any persol medical knowledge.
1	My father has heart issues.  A few months ago, I found him sitting on the couch, not breathing.  I gave him CPR until the paramedics came and he lived. I learned CPR when I was a teeger and this is the first time I have had a chance to use it.
1	Being able to tell what my symptoms were when I get sick with bronchitis.  
1	I take Vitamin C for in creasing my immune system 
1	I learn a lot about ears in my classes and how to diagnose ear infections. A friend of mine was feeling dizzy and stuffy and had a hearing exam done after I recommended that she see an audiologist because her symptoms could be indicative of something worse.
-1	I feel very knowledgeable about health issues and medical things. I was in the field for years, and physically could not do it anymore. If it weren't for my back, I might still be in the medical field.
1	I had to keep track of my mother's cancer treatment regimen which meant maintaining a walking encyclopedia of her more than 30 year journey with technology, medications and procedures.
1	My recent health issues, when I contracted pneumonia, and developed CHF.
-1	I was able to talk to a friend about a medical issue that he had, and I basically diagnosed him, and it turned out that I was correct.
1	Recently my mom had shoulder replacement surgery. I was in the hospital with her and explained the medications and intervention the surgeon was going to use. 
1	I was experiencing major pain in my back abdomil and chest.  After doing research online I was fearful that I may have had an appendix issue or some type of liver cancer or something along those lines.  I described my issue to the doctor and he thought it might be appendix as well but after tests it was determined to be Gerd and not something more serious 
1	I don't have a specific experience. But I've read about general medical conditions over the years.
-1	I was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis 5 years ago.  I am up to speed on the latest drugs and what my symptoms are.  What is an attack and what is not.  
-1	being middle-aged with an 8 year old boy, I have had plenty of experience with the medical field. My dad had a heart attack and I have been watching my weight and sugar intake.
1	I recently spoke with a friend about her abnormal period. Since I'm currently going through treatment for the same issue I told her what I had discussed with my Dr. I was able to give her an outline of the options for treatment.
-1	my husband woke up blind in one eye. i googled it and found he had a stroke in his eye. went to the hospital and the confirmed it.
-1	I was put on new blood pressure medicine and asked the questions and was able to take it as perscribed
1	I was giving birth to identical twins which carried a lot of risk of complications. I informed myself of the risks and made sure ask related questions during my appointments. I was able to give birth without any worry or unknowns because I had adequately studied and understood all the possible outcomes. 
1	I took health courses in my College that left me with very informative education on health and medical issues.  One time I had pain in my inner ear area, and I figured it must be from impacted ear cerumen.  My intuition was correct and after going to the ENT, they removed it from me and the pain went away.
1	In caring for my father I have a lot involvement in his medical issues. I am able to demonstrate my medical knowledge by being aware of changes and discussing them with the doctors. 
1	My knowledge comes mostly from open sources: internet, blogs, health sites. Plus my own human experience.
1	I volunteer with a peoples group that is known for higher risk of medical issues. In trying to help and understand the people I'm serving, I've researched conditions that they are dealing with. 
-1	I cannot think of an experience in my life that truly demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues.
-1	i have no experience other than growing up with my mother who is a nurse.
1	As a child I had something called PANDAS, which is a bad reaction to strep throat that leads to OCD and anxiety. So, now I'm very good at detecting symptoms of strep early on, and always go to the dotor when I have a sore throat, to prevent undiagnosed strep from hurting my mental health.
-1	I had been injured in a bad car accident and was responsible for my medical care. I trusted my doctor to refer me to good care, and he did. I went to several specialists and was able to heal well.
1	I was having some heart problems recently, and after seeing a specialist and having some tests, I was able to receive a diagnosis from the specialist. I was able to demonstrate my knowledge of this when I eventually relayed that information to my boyfriend and family, who were also waiting to hear what the issue was. 
1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy and needed to read material on the disease, what type I had and the medicines I will be taking.
1	My mother was a diabetic, and I had to learn alot about the disease.  I helped her give herself her daily injections and learned quite a bit about insulin. 
-1	One time I pulled a muscle in my leg bad. It hurt really bad but I knew that if that happens you have to reduce inflammation. So I applied ice to it and by the next day it felt a lot better.
1	Caring for family. My own doctor visits. My first aid/CPR/AED classes. Working for a pharmacy. I was a Safety Coorditor for a logistics company.
-1	 I really can't think of any I don't have many health issues   
1	I was one of the main people taking care of my dad while he was ill.  I had to make sure I understood all of the dosages, allergies, contradicting prescriptions, etc.  I also had to understand it well enough to explain it to anyone else who may be taking care of him.  That to me proved that I knew what was going on as well.
1	I actually can't think of an experience that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	My son was exhibiting signs of hypothyroidism. Because I have this condition it was likely he did also.
1	I work as an administrative assistant in a medical office. I also have worked as a patient care technician and have had to record blood sugars, food intake, etc. 
1	I have migraines and I know to sit in a dark room with high humidity to reduce my migraines, since migraines can be caused by specific lights. 
1	I have researched the diabetes disease and  I now know a lot about diabetes. I researched the disease because a family member has it. 
1	Once my son was diagnosed with a syndrome by a geneticist without having any genetic blood testing done.  Over the next few years I kept bringing symptoms my son was having to the doctor's attention because they did not seem to be associated with the syndrome he was diagnosed with.  The doctor didn't listen to what I was saying.  I took him to another geneticist who agreed with me and did genetic blood testing on my son.  It turns out he did not have the origil syndrome he was diagnosed with but he had a completely different syndrome.
1	I had to have my gallbladder removed so I investigated everything that it entailed and what I could expect. I also found out what to expect after it was removed so I was prepared when I had it done.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is knowing that the reason my mother had so few platelets was because her bone marrow was not functioning correctly and because she didn't have many platelets any kind of even minor injury was dangerous to her because he body was uble to produce more / enough platelets to stop her from bleeding to death.
-1	I recently have had to go on drugs due to anxiety. I basically saw that anxiety was rising my blood pressure since I was always worried about stuff. So me and my doctor maged to find a perfect medicine for me.
1	I wouldn't say I have a lot of knowledge, rather I try to document what is communicated by medical professiols and research the issues at home. Recently I was told I had a condition and made notes while at the Drs office, then came home and fully researched the issue to better understand it. 
-1	i can not think of a time 
-1	I felt a bump on my shoulder and I knew something was up so I went to the doctor and he told me that I had cancer.
-1	everytime i go to the doctor and have to bring up my food intake, i demonstrate my knowledge of nutrition
1	I had a rash and monitored it for a few days before asking for advice of the doctor. She said it was likely from contact with something disagreeable and said it would clear up on its own.
1	I accurately diagnosed my psoriasis based on reading about it and then the doctor confirmed it.
-1	In class I have a biology class and we talk about these issues on a daily basis
1	While in college I participated in a class where we worked to create a presentation on how to better one health. We used studies as well as our own observations to complete the presentation. 
1	I went to the doctor after I experienced severe depression on birth control. I maged to get it changed without bringing up that aspect of my symptoms. 
-1	I have taken a health class in college. I also enjoy reading about nutrition. 
1	I helped keep my mother alive for many years by closely monitoring her many physical problems.  I assisted her in the hospital and at home with medication and other health related issues.
1	I was diagnosed with something that no doctor could figure out. They all thought I had a uriry tract infection and no medicine that they gave me worked. I started doing my own research to try and figure out what I had and it was a matter of getting the doctor's to listen to what I may possibly have. It turns out I filly found a urologist that agreed with me and that I did have intersitial cystitis. 
1	I used to work for an attorney as a legal researcher. We had a lot of medical cases involving supplements, vaccines, and malpractice cases so I learned a lot from that job.
1	I was diagnosed with hypothyroidism when I was 19. My thyroid was depressed from a two-month-long upper respiratory infection I had learned to live with. I used things I had learned through my behavioral magement class to cope with having a phobia of needles and doing regular blood draws. Since my thyroid wasn't damaged I actually went off the medicine within a year because I was exercising heavily (partially to prevent weight gain, partially to increase my energy) and avoiding foods that would further depress my thyroid (which I had to research on my own and my doctor did not give to me) 
1	"I have no professiol knowledge of health of medical issues. I only can go by what I ""feel"" going on with my body and determine if it is serious enough to go to the hospital. I had some growing pains when I was younger that prevented me from breathing, so I had to rush to the emergency room. It ended up only being growing pains but it felt extremely horrible at the time and I thought it was life-threatening."
-1	Both of my parents were in the medical field. So I know how would be as a career. I thought about doing it, but it was just really coplicated. I like studying about it and learning the treatments though.
-1	I was first on the seen of an acident and had to proivide cpralso I am good at self diagnose by knowledge and discernment as i did the last time i visit my primary and new that i had the flu with a secoindary issue
1	Providing patient care on a psychiatric eating disorder unit. 
1	I had a mole on my arm. I read the warning signs of a dangerous mole. It was cancer and was easily removed.
1	when i went to mental health and told the doctor what was wrong and what i needed
1	I once recalled my experiences with taking different kinds of antidepressants during a session with my psychiatrist. 
-1	Before my father passed away, I learned a lot of dialysis, since he was on dialysis for kidney failure, and he also had heart issues, so being close to him and seeing him almost daily and taking him to doctors, etc. I learned a lot.
-1	My back was aching me for days on end.  I took it upon myself to self diagnose the situation, looking online for ways to ease the pain from a tural and holistic way.  I knew that a doctor could not magically make my pain disappear, I had to do something for myself.  I iced the location of the pain and began an exercise regimen to begin the healing process.  I knew what I was doing and what needed doing and I did it.
-1	I have taken a few premed classes before deciding on what I actually wanted to do in life. I also have dealt with family members having multiple medical issues so i have done multiple research. 
1	When I gave birth to both of my children, I wanted to know how my placentas looked. I know that if they were discolored or foul smelling there was a chance that I had an infection or the babies were in distress during delivery.
1	This is an ambiguous and very broad question. A few years ago I knew I met the definition of obesity and worked to lose enough weight to fall into the normal weight range. By doing this I know I have significantly reduced my risks for heart disease, stroke, diabetes, and other health problems.
-1	I have none.
1	I have a Bachelor's degree in Biology, and worked as a veteriry technician for several years. 
1	My TSH was very high -- it was 8.  My doctor wanted to immediately place me on a medicine to replace my thyroid.  I wanted to research it, and I learned that too much, not just too little, iodine could increase my TSH.  I had been taking 1/16 t. of kelp to get iodine (since I don't use salt), but it turns out that was too much. I stopped using it, and my TSH returned to &lt;1 within a couple of weeks. No medicine necessary.  Also, I was able to reduce my cholesterol to &lt;160 by diet alone -- by following a whole foods, high carb, no added fat, oil-free vegan diet -- so again, no pills, whereas he wanted to put me on pills immediately.
1	I got a cold and knew that it was communicable, so I stayed away from other people to keep from contracting it to them.  I rested more than usual so my body could fight the cold.
-1	My son was born with craniosynostosis. His diagnosis and surgery made me learn different things about medical issues.
-1	I was told after i had my last child that during my follow up i had an abnormal pap smear.  he is 22 now and i never went back, so i guess it was wrong.
-1	I guess answering questions the best I can
-1	When my daughter has the flu, I knew the symptoms between it and a normal cold.
1	My aunt has diabetes, so I am familiar with the disease and potential risks/treatments for it. I am also familiar with the symptoms of diabetes, and actively keep an eye out for these signs in my own health.
1	I have a major in biology and have read multiple scientific articles on various medical and health issues. 
-1	When I was able to preform CPR on a little boy after he drowned at lake. I was able to preform CPR and take his blood pressure and pulse.
1	I had surgery on my elbow a while ago. I was able to follow the directions given to me for recovery. I was also able to do the physical therapy exercises that were given to me at home. I made a full recovery
-1	I started a new birth control method and I understood the instructions on how to start it based on what I read in their instructions.
-1	I have had several MRI on my back. Most of them I have asked for the paper copies and DVD copy. I have asked my surgeon to explain the procedures and findings on my MRI. With these instructions I can now read them and understand them
1	When I had kidney failure, I had lots of tests and doctors visits.  I asked them lots of intelligent questions and they were impressed by my knowledge.
1	I am a volunteer EMT and have been able to apply the knowledge that I learned through my EMT class and other college classes (was a biochemistry undergraduate student) to my volunteer work.
1	When my mom had a lump in her breast. She said that she could move it around. I said that probably meant that it's benign, which it turned out to be when she went in for testing.
1	I was an emt for several years.
-1	Pertaining to myself, I have demonstrated knowledge when I needed to take b-12 shots for a time and had to administer them myself. 
-1	when i decided to get fit. i use to be 220lb as  a kid so i taught myself how to workout out, about nutrition and diet and things like that. currently i am trying to help my brother drop weight based on what i learned that helped me
-1	My husband had prostrate cancer and I was his caregiver.  I talked to his doctors, asked questions about his test results and did my own research.
1	dont have experience, i just know how to read
-1	Both of my children got sick enough to be hospitalized with they were about 3 years old. They had contracted a virus and were losing body fluids through throwing up and diarrhea. I recognized the signs of dehydration and got them medical attention in time.
1	I had my second child at home. She landed in the toilet as I began to stand to go to the hospital. It was scary and exciting. 
1	A time in my life when I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when my niece had a severe headache. I knew from her symptoms that she was having a migraine ( I have had migraines since I was fourteen years old). 
1	I was once diagnosed with high blood pressure. After doing some research, I realized that a large part of the problem was my poor eating choices. I started making better choices and reduced my blood pressure readings.
1	My father was having heart surgery. The surgeon explained what was happening to me and my mother; my understanding is typically better than hers of medical issues. WHen he left, she asked me to rephrase what he'd said to confirm that she'd understood (and she had). 
1	I had an issue where my doctor told me that I had high cholesterol.  We discussed starting a statin but after discussing the pros and cons, I opted to increase my exercise activity.  We discussed the good and bad levels of cholesterol and I was able to get my cholesterol back within acceptable levels based on my increased level of exercise.
1	I haven't learned much beyond high school health class. I know minor first aid, basic CPR, the Heimlich maneuver, and I helped my wife treat a sprained ankle with RICE, and I know the best treatment for a broken toe is to tape it to its closest partner. Everything else I've learned from the internet, which is admittedly not the best place to learn things.
-1	I work in a medical office and I had to to know of the different procedures that would be going on in our facility.
1	The other day my husband was curious about a rash he had on his leg. He works in a lot of water so he had broke out in what looked to be a friction rash or burn. He put neosporin on it which made it worse. I informed him of something that I once read that a lot of people have a negative reaction to that cream and to just keep it clean and dry.
1	I have many years of experience with common illnesses like the cold or the flu, so I can recognize the symptoms and know the treatments. In addition to that, I have diabetes, so I have to mage my glucose levels constantly. It involves a lot of calculations and familiarity with symptoms.
1	I get frequent UTI's so I am able to tell when I feel one coming on. I am then able to take the necessary precautions to try and catch it early and stop it from getting worse. I keep a variety of remedies readily available and I understand when and how to use each.
1	mom got a new prescription with detailed instructions. she needed help so i had to digest and explain the instructions to her in a way to make her understand
1	I have an autoimmune disease so there have been many instances where I was having to demonstrate what I already know and recognized about the disease
1	I really don't have that much knowledge of health or medical issues, but I have common sense and can try to research when necessary.
1	I went to college for osteology, so I had to become familiar with the body and diseases, and how diseases affect the body.
1	Going through my lower back surgeries. I was in an auto accident, and it definitely helped having some medical knowledge 
1	My doctor was talking to me about how a certain disease affects me. He used a lot of technical terms and I was able to understand almost all of them and ask him very intelligent questions that most people don't ask.
1	A few years ago I was diagnosed with high blood pressure, it runs in my family so my doctor put me on a low dose of it. While I was on the medicine I started to exercise and eat more healthy because I knew that if I did that it would help with my blood pressure and also help lower it. I was able to lower my blood pressure by doing this and eventually come off of the medicine all together.
1	A doctor saw that I had a low white blood cell count and I spoke to him about my concerns and what I needed to do.I was able to understand what he was saying because it was starting to get complicated. I was then able to relay that to my family and was able to discuss the results with them. 
1	When my child was very sick and a high fever, throwing up, and the shakes. I knew to strip him down and use a cold rag to try to cool him down along with medicine to try to help him feel better. I knew that if his fever got above 104 f to call a doctor but luckily that didn't happen.
1	My grandad had leukemia. I would discuss the things that his doctors told him, so that he could better understand what they were telling him.
-1	I was able to question doctors. I was able to foresee their line of questioning.
1	When I was a teeger, my friend went into diabetic shock. I knew what to do because I had seen it online a few months earlier. We got her insulin steadied and she didn't suffer any damage to her health.
1	I've had asthma most of my life. I visit my doctor for inhalers, and respiratory health issues in general.
1	I had knowledge of my health when I felt a lump on my back. I checked the internet and found that it was not harmful. I asked my doctor and he also said that it was not harmful to my health.
1	4 years ago my mom had brain surgery for a tumor. After working in the medical device industry for 12 years I was much more comfortable talking to the doctors and asking questions than my parents were. Doctors are humans and normal folk, I am ok talking and questioning them. I think this is most important, even beyond knowing what to do or how to treat. I knew what questions to ask: follow up plans, treatment pathways, altertive options, long term side effects. And I was able to get enough information to plan. 
1	When dealing with my pregncy I was able to understand all of my test results and any actions that needed to be taken or followed up on. A specific example is when I had to have my fasting glucose level tested. I received my results and determined that I was in the normal range, which was then confirmed by the doctor at my next appointment.
1	A friend of mine reported feeling extremely tired no matter how much she slept while she was on her period. I suggested that he iron might be low during that time.
-1	I have myasthenia gravis so im pretty knowledgable on some things
1	I have been through childbirth twice and had a daughter born with a kidney issue which later resolved.  Therefore, I learned to read and understand medical information.
-1	I was told that I had a thyroid issue. I changed my diet and vitamins and I was able to improve my health. 
1	I have followed a high fiber diet for many years.  A few years ago, I began to experience a lot of bloating.  I consistently adjusted my diet and my use of fiber supplements until I found what was causing the problem.  It took several months to do that, but I was successful in reducing my discomfort.
1	I realized that I was suffering dehydration one day and that I needed water and electrolytes to get my body re-hydrated.
1	I was able to provide CPR to a child that was drowning in a community pool. I was CPR certified while training to become a lifeguard.
1	I know a lot a about medications and what they are taken for. Someone asked me what a statin drug was and I explained it was for cholesterol.
-1	When my aunt felt a tightening in her heart, we immediately took her to the hospital to have her heart checked. I knew that there was something wrong with her heart and wanted to find out what.
1	A friend asked my whether her blood pressure was at an acceptable level. She had a monitor, but absolutely no idea what an acceptable limit (120/80) was.
-1	This would only be when and if I knew what exactly was wrong with myself, such as when I got poison ivy last month while hiking in the woods. I have had it before and know what it is like, the conditions of it and how it looks on the skin.
1	My mother was in a nursing home and taking Dilantin. She had grand mal seizures and was taken to the emergency room. They did a blood test and said it was zero. I was literally selling Dilantin assays at the time, knew about peaks and troughs etc. I told them to redo the test as I felt it was incorrect. They redrew and did the test. The level was in the therapeutic range. The seizures were due to trauma from a broken hip.
1	When I was taking medic classes when I was 19, I was visiting my mother and stepfather. She choked on a piece of steak. I did the Heimlich and saved her life. I have used that more to save people's lives than I've pulled people out of burning buildings.
-1	None that I can think of
1	I had a sore shoulder and went to physical therapy, but felt that it was not right to move my arm so much, so I filly asked if I could go to a specialist...it was a physicians assistant surgeon (I think) that I went to.  He told me to rest my shoulder for 30 days.  I did that, and it healed.  I also am convinced that proper diet is the best medicine.  My friend changed his diet and lowered his diabetes numbers to below diabetic readings.
1	My uncle was diagnosed with stage 4 melanoma. I had to quickly read up on the latest studies about immunotherapies and which ones may work for him.
1	"At work a girl accidentally got stabbed by a small knife between her fingers. A small vein was punctured causing blood to ""squirt"" from the wound with her heart beat. Everyone panicked except myself. I went to the first aid kit and grabbed a cold compress. I put it over the wound and it closed by itself after about 2 minutes. No one else knew that making the vein cold would cause it to constrict and stop the blood flow."
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health is when I was sitting down with my parents and explaining to them the importance of changing their diet, and working towards living a healthier life. I had done a lot of research prior, and was able to explain to them the benefits of eating cleaner, and the benefits that it had on their bodies by cutting out junk food, and not going out to eat as much. I want them to live as long as possible and not be in a lot of pain when they're older. When I was talking everything through with them I felt sort of like an expert on the topic.
1	I demonstrated knowledge of my health issues when I was able to calculate how much insulin I needed for breakfast this morning. I'm a type-1 diabetic so I have to inject before I eat. For breakfast, I had oatmeal with a side of juice so I had to calculate the carb count for each, then input the correct amount of insulin.
1	I have had to deal with illnesses ranging from asthma to gallstone pain, both of which landed me in the hospital. I have had to go to the hospital and doctors with friends and relatives who didn't want to go on their own. I have read extensively online about various common health problems. 
1	I was experiencing some medical issues and did some research about potential methods of treatment,  I asked my doctor if a particular treatment would be effective for me.  We decided together to pursue the treatment,
1	I have a regular check up every year to determine my levels of liver enzymes and cholesterol. I researched all results associated with my findings. 
1	A client came into our addiction treatment facility who was elderly and suddenly wasn't feeling well. I recognized that she said her arm was feeling numb, her face because to droop and she was having trouble with speech. I recognized these as signs of a stroke and called 911 to get her immediate assistance. 
1	I had cancer as a young man.  As soon as I had symptoms I took myself in to be seen.  I was an active participant in my diagnosis and treatment and eventual recovery.
1	Spending 4 years trying to get a diagnosis of a rare disease meant that I learned a lot about how certain organ systems work, what the possible causes of a disorder are, and how a diagnosis is made.
-1	I am inexperienced in medical knowledge and do not have medical background in training
1	I was talking to my mom about Dold Trump's mental issues. I told her about his rcissistic persolity disorder and possible dementia. I think I read he was a textbook case of it.
1	I had someone ask me about celiac disease. I know a lot about it because I have it myself. I told them how to eat and what to look out for.
1	When my father was diagnosed with a significant blockage of his carotid artery and was told it could not improve without surgery, I encouraged him to try a vegan diet.  After 6 months the blockage became insignificant even though he was told this was not possible by his doctor.  
-1	I eat healthy and I exercise regularly, because I understand that is best for my overall health.  
-1	I just used basic reasoning and stats to figure out the chances. I guess some of it was knowledge I have just sort of learned as well
1	I found a lump in my testicle and went to a doctor.  He had it scanned and while we waited for results I did some research.  I was able to discuss my diagnosis with my doctor and understand what he was telling me and also offer counter theories as to what it might be or the cause.  In the end we were able to sort it out and I was satisfied that I understood where it was going instead of being scared and relying on everything he told me.
-1	I have given birth to two children. My youngest has had a host of health issues and we've seen several different specialists and had different therapies. My mom was an LPN and would talk about different things when we had questions. I also will research when there is something that is concerning or an issue I have. 
1	My mother was bed bound for over 6 years due to many illnesses. While my father was usually in charge of helping keep track of her medication, illnesses, and allergies, I had to keep them straight too. There were a few times over those years that I kept a Doctor straight on what all was going on with her medication.
1	My parents and grandparents went through very serious medical events in their lives while I was around that exposed me to much of the medical world and its workings. Ive seen many procedures and medical suggestions to maintain life. Ive done much reading and research on many of their medical problems.
1	my girlfriend needed stitches for a cut on her hand this weekend. I guessed she needed 4 and they gave her 5, but I still feel the 5th stitch was unneeded. 
1	When my jaw was broken and we had to make decisions about the surgery
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge was when I had a blood panel done and was given just the number results rather than what they meant. I was able to obtain the needed information on my own to determine what those numbers meant for my A1C, triglycerides, and cholesterol. 
-1	Some of them are confusing and take math skills
1	When I was diagnosed with osteoporosis, I already knew a lot about the disease and available treatments. My mother has osteoporosis too and I had read a lot about it already. 
-1	I try not to be knowledgable with others due to me not being it myself without needing reference
1	I used to be a certified nursing assistant about twenty years ago.
1	I had abnormal results on a thyroid test during pregncy.  Because I've been pregnt before and realized that there are issues in pregncy that can cause these results I didn't worry and chose to wait until after delivery to retest. The results were within a normal range. 
1	I had a leg rash and so I went to the nurse who told me it was a fungal infection and recommended some treatment. I was skeptical because when I did some research, it didn't seem to match up with my symptoms. Then, when the rash didn't respond to the topical cream, I went and got a second opinion and was able to actually treat my symptoms.
1	
-1	Last year my sister started experiencing numbness in her limbs and then her finger joints swelled. She was content to ignore this but I went online to try and figure out what the problem might be. The symptoms fit for some kind of auto immune disease and with this information I was able to talk her into going to the doctor.
-1	I know some medical jargon so I can sometimes tell what the doctor is saying and they don't know it.
1	I explained how a surgery was performed to my friend.
1	I am often a resource for friends and family members regarding health issues in their lives.  The most recent example would be helping a friend with lung issues learn how to do breathing exercises and teaching him how and when to do the exercises. 
1	I didn't really have first hand experiences, but I suppose I can say that I am currently in the process of losing weight, and I have tried to count my calorie intake. So reading the calorie and nutritiol labels and counting my intake has given me some experiences.
1	My aunt was diagnosed with Crohn's disease which affects the lining of the digestive tract. Since I have an interest in health, I am familiar with this disease. I was able to help her understand some of the concepts of new diets that the doctor recommended to her. After her diagnosis I continued to help her prepare meals that would be easier for her to digest. 
-1	Military, Hospital dealings with myself and family, my significant other is a RN at a major hospital. 
-1	
1	Last fall, I had a pain in my side that I was trying to ignore. One night, I woke up in severe pain and knew I needed medical attention right away. I was not all that worried, though, because I assumed it was my gall bladder. I was right, and it was removed about 2 weeks later. Had I not had the knowledge of how gall bladders work and what was likely causing the pain, I may have been much more worried and anxious than I was.
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with Alzheimers. I started to notice things like she accused my sister of stealing the towels. We of course left at this and thought she is just old and could not remember. I noticed she did not sleep at night, but more in the day. I started putting all of these things together and started researching it. I found out she had sundowners and we than got her tested for dementia which she did have.
1	I recently had my gallbladder out and I knew it was my gallbladder even before we ran any tests. Reading about the location of pain, symptoms, and severity I was pretty spot on with the diagnosis. 
1	I have studied biological sciences in undergraduate. Many of my courses were involved with nursing applications and other medical knowledge. I have studied statistics for 3 years.
1	I am a little overweight. My doctor offered to write me a script for appetite suppressant. I already knew about the drug, but declined the script because the side effects were not what I would want to potentially experience in order to just drop a few pounds. 
1	As I stated before, I work in clinical research...diabetes, obesity, cardiology, statistics, etc...
1	I use my head and try to understand each issue as well as I can.  I always ask questions when I can.
-1	I once had a shoddy lymph node pop up. I had it checked, and was worried it might be lymphoma, but since I didn't exhibit any other symptoms, I was about 80 percent sure it was nothing more than a node that got out of place and never went back down. I ended up being correct. 
1	I had a friend that was stressing out because she wasn't sure if she had some form of ovarian cancer. I was able to help her better determine that she might have ovarian cysts instead, and this was confirmed by a doctor's visit.
1	My father had prostate cancer and I had a case of prostatitis around the age of 40. I requested a PSA test at age 42. My doctor said that this was young but because of my family history and my own trouble with my prostate, he said that the PSA test was acceptable in my case. I understood about the high rate of false positives in this case, so I knew that if I had a high PSA it didn't necessarily mean I had cancer. 
1	I went to the doctor thinking I had bronchitis due to my symptoms and the length of time I had had the illness. The doctor confirmed that was what I had and prescribed me medicine.
1	most of my career  was spent in hospitals and the back of ambulances i have 2 years 
-1	My dad recently broke his ankle. He didn't think it was broken but I could tell it was pretty bad and I had to use my knowledge to convince him to go to the ER while also providing various care in the meantime for the swelling, using RICE, etc
1	I was diagnosed with high blood pressure so I spent time learning how to mage and control it through diet and exercise changes. I didn't know the ways before I was diagnosed but and better informed now.
-1	When a family member was diagnosed with cancer, I was their primary care-giver.
1	I have successfully been able to help friends having bad chemical reactions from the synergy of 2 chemicals. After identifying this we could then help them balance back out and get to a normal state. I was lucky to have simple education on the synergy of different things.
1	Living this life has turally made me knowledgable of health issues and this medical industry at many levels.
-1	My significant other had some kind of illness and I figured it was some kind of cold based on his symptoms and when he went to the doctor it had turned out that I was right.
-1	My mother had breast cancer and got to a point where she couldn't care for herself.  I had to take care of her meds and appointment etc.  I think I gained valuable knowledge while caring for my ailing mother.
1	Reading about it online, or watching TV shows that explore health topics. 
1	When taking anti-biotics I make sure to take them as prescribed as I am aware of the negative outcome of not doing so. I also take pro-biotics in order to make up for the damage that they do after. I can calculate my basal metabolic rate, activity levels, and accurately predict how many calories I need to eat on a daily basis to gain, lose or maintain weight.
1	I don't know.  I raised five boys, so there were always childhood illnesses that came up.  I think I was pretty good at determining what was minor (like a cold) and something that needed medical intervention (like a broken bone or the croup).
1	When I started getting the cold. I dressed warm and stayed under bed covers the rest of the day. Felt perfectly normal the next day.
-1	I was hospitalized with a pulmory embolism
1	I constantly look stuff up. And as a diabetic i have to stay up on all the govt misinformation about my disease. 
1	My mother was having dizzy spells after she moved to a house at high altitude in Colorado. I told her that her blood pressure medication might need to be adjusted due to the altitude change. 
1	In college, I took a course, as an economics major, I took a course that was intended for premed students in how to read articles from medical jourls. I did well in the course, although there were clearly gaps in my knowledge because there elements of basic biology, like the brain-blood barrier, that I was almost completely unfamiliar with.
1	I have high blood pressure. i take beta block and a high blood pressure pill to lower my heart rate and pressure so that its 130/70. I also was sudding to be a med student but quit and went to the army 
-1	I have some education in medical related classes. 
1	I chose to get a flu shot because it had little risk of side effects but provided high protection against the flu. I thought the risk/reward was favorable.
1	I don't have tons of health experience, but I do have PCOS so I have researched diet and nutrition to help mage weight over the years with varying levels of success. I've used that as a reason to continue to exercise when I don't want to, and I became a vegetarian to have a healthy approach to eating. It helps keep me conscious of what I am eating. 
1	I went to a doctor when I found a growth on my arm. It was something I had never seen before so I got it biopsied 
1	Due to a school project I had done on Strep Throat, I knew immediately that I had it, due to the telltale spots on the tongue. I ended up getting strep throat every year for five or six years straight, so I became very good at determining when I was about to have strep throat again.
1	I went to school to obtain my Emergency Medical Technician certification. While, I am not medically trained in the hospital setting as doctors are, I learned so much that helps me in my every day life and being a parent. 
1	I've been sick with the flu a few times in my life and I knew what to do without the need to visit a doctor. I knew to get plenty of rest and drink fluids and watch my fever temperature. I was also aware of the symptoms to watch for in case it developed into something more serious.
1	My brother was seriously ill and non-communicative while in the hospital being treated. I was able to discuss his condition with his (multiple) physicians and was able to understand what they said. As a result I was able, along with his wife, to make treatment decisions on his part.
1	I really can't think of an example.
1	"I have had many health issues so I stay on top of my illnesses and try to find ways to mitigate my risk, as well as looking for supplements and behaviors that can help me stay healthy. I had a high blood pressure last time I saw my doctor. We both were very concerned. However, over a month of eating right and working to decrease those numbers I was able to get back into ""good"" range. "
1	My mother was having slurred speech and muscle weakness. I recognized the signs of a stroke and called an ambulance. It turned out she was in fact having a stroke.
1	I can't remember anything.
1	After having two healthy pregncies, I had two miscarriages, 6 months apart. At the time I was also having symptoms of mild hypothyroidism. My OBG didn't want to treat me for it b/c she said that it wouldn't cause miscarriage. I demanded treatment and to humor me she gave me a very small dosage of thyroid pill. I then miscarried shortly afterward. I talked to my regular dr. and she agreed to test me....turns out I had a thryoid automimmune issue that most likely caused my miscarriage. To this day, I still despise my obg for not listening to me.
1	When dealing with my infertility I sought out information in books, by talking to friends, and reading on the internet. I made it my goal to know all I could about the way my reproductive system works and I have been able to share that knowledge with others and it has helped me feel like I am helping others. 
1	I had a gestatiol diabetes , which changed my outlook towards health and lifestyle.I started to learn more and more about healthy living.
-1	I knew my father in law had a stroke because of the way he was laying on the floor and that there was no point in trying to get him to tell us what was wrong.  If I wasn't there my idiot sister in law would've sat there for who knows how long trying to get him to talk before calling 911.
1	I ate healthfully as to avoid medical issues
1	My daughter had a coarctation of the aorta when she was 4. Her doctor found a heart murmur early on and monitored it until she decided she should have surgery to repair it.  I stayed current with all procedures, and demonstrate proper aftercare.
1	By my third child, I had experienced so many fevers and stomach bugs that I felt pretty confident in treating my children without needing to call the pediatrician.
1	Many of my friends have had kids in the last few years. My stepdad was an OBGYN so i grew up being very familiar with childbirth and possible complications. I also did a ton of research on pre and post tal health and breastfeeding when I was pregnt. I was able to help a lot of my friends ease pregncy symptoms (like usea, muscle spasms or swelling) and also helped a few friends get through rare breast feeding issues that many doctors are unfamiliar with (like high lipase milk or reyulds syndrome)
1	I have a lot of experiences when I count calories to determine what to eat. I try to eat healthy and not eat too many calories
1	I work on the legal side of some health related cases but most are discrimition cases so there isn't much medical technical knowledge needed.
-1	I discovered an ulcer in my stomach. AS a former nurse, I knew that the symptoms were a burning and stubbing pain in my lower abdomen as well as fatigue, low appetite and stress. My diagnosis was confirmed by a gastroenterology doctor.
1	My face and jaw were in pain. I knew I had a terrible sinus infection.
1	I had a peComa tumor growing on my kidney. It was large, they removed it, but I had to see an oncologist to talk about regrowth. I was able to discuss the growth pattern and mitotic cycle of the cells
-1	I have been attending therapy for several years which has given me knowledge of many mental health issues and the inner-workings of the mind. This has also taught me how to use coping skills more effectively.
1	When I hurt my back, I told the doctor which disks felt like they were hurting. An MRI proved I was correct.
1	My wife became extremely ill when scratched by the dog. She had a very bad allergic reaction. i had to discuss several options with the doctors because the medicines where causing very bad side effects
1	When I found out I had a tumor on my ovary. I found out that taking birth control could help reduce my risk of cysts turning into tumors.
1	I don't know how to answer that question because I have always relied on the doctor to explain medical issues with me.  I don't know enough about them to make my own decisions.
1	Just being around family with health issues I have heard from doctors and seen medical charts.
1	I was with my grandfather when he was in the hospital and the nurses and doctors were talking to him about his condition, causes, and treatments. I understood what was being said and help articulate it better to my grandfather on parts he had not understood.
-1	I was hospitalized a couple of years ago due to inflammation in my ileum, which is the last part of the small intestine. When the doctor informed me of this, I knew exactly where he was talking about based on my existing knowledge. Crohn's Disease (which I now know I have) was mentioned and I was already aware of what that was. 
-1	So far I have not had any health or medical issues. I have been lucky. Every person is different and their experience is different. 
1	I possess the BRC2 gene that increases my risk of breast and ovarian cancer. If I have certain surgeries, it dramatically reduces my risk of getting both cancers by the time I'm 70.
-1	My youngest son was born with panhypopituitary
-1	I was really sick for awhile and when I first started to notice things I went to the internet before calling a doctor I didn't want to go because I was in a panic over nothing. So I put in all the issues and came up with three possibilities. I called and made an appointment and when I went I said I think I have could have these issues. I listed all the little things and they did tests and it came out that I was right with one of them.
1	when I was told I had high cholesterol, I already knew what kinds of foods to include and exclude from my diet to lower my cholesterol. I changed my diet and there was a big difference.
1	A friend of mine had to take medication, but did not understand what it was for. His doctor did not do a good job informing him. I used his illness and medication me as research points, and was able to learn about and then inform my friend of the details of his illness and his medication.
1	When I gave birth to my fourth child, the nurse started to explain what to expect. However, I already knew everything she told me. I had already had that medical experience and understood the health information provided to me.
1	My father had a heart attack and needed bypass surgery. When he came home from the hospital he lost a lot of strength and had to change some of his routines. He also had more frequent doctor visits afterwards. Being exposed to his condition and his rehab gave me some direct experience with heart problems and their effects and how to better prevent such incidents.
1	I learned a lot about healthcare when I was pregnt with twins. I was also diabetic as well. Through all my appointments and research I learned a lot.
-1	When I knew that I had something wrong with my knee and the xrays and imaging didn't show anything. It wasn't until I went to a bone doctor that he xrayed me standing up and saw that the cartledge was missing from my left knee. The origil doctors said I didn't have anything wrong. It cost a lot of money and time to find out the truth.  
1	I cut my finger open and applied pressure until the bleeding stopped. Later went to the emergency room for stitches.
1	When I broke my shoulder. I instantly knew I had dislocated it by how it felt and looked and how little I could do 
1	
-1	My daughter was hospitalizeed for strep throat. I know alot about this and have had it myself so i was better able to help her. i also knew what medicine to ask for.
1	I knew that eating healthy and exercise will lead to a healthy life. Eat lemons, eat fruits and veggies more often, and no fatty or meats .
1	In the past year I have had to routinely go for screenings and ultrasounds for thyroid and para-thyroid cancer due to nodules being found on both glands.
1	I'm really not sure I've ever had to demonstrate my knowledge of health/medical issues outside of schooling. 
1	I had to explain to someone at work that the nutrition label does not describe the totality of the container, but a serving of the food within that container. She did not understand that the nutrition label describes the serving size and not the container size.
1	I had stomach pain, and it felt odd.  I examined the symptoms and determined it was my appendix.  I went to the ER and I was right - it was my appendix. 
1	Several years ago, I woke up with severe pain in my lower right side.  I could barely walk.  I suspected it was my appendix.  My husband took me to the hospital where I ended up having emergency surgency to remove my appendix.
1	It was after I had had a stent put in for a heart attack.  About a month after i was released from the hospital, I felt very bad and extremely lethargic. My blood pressure was very low.  I felt that one of my medicines was making me feel that way and should be adjusted.  I went to my cardiologist and told him.  he took me off of one of the medicines and I quickly recovered to feeling like my old self.
1	Last time I went to the doctor, he told me that my cholesterol level was still very high, but since I was already taking the max dose of the medicine he prescribed, he could not raise it higher.  I knew this already because the medicine also has an effect on my liver and if I take too much of it, it could damage my liver.
1	I was able to understand potential side effects of taking a certain drug and recognize relevant side effects. I was also able to test my blood pressure and know if it falls into a safe range. 
1	I was given a flu shot which reduced my odds of getting the flu by an order of one. That meant i was 10 times a likely to NOT get the flu as if i had not got the shot.
-1	I have 2 kids both with asthma. I learned everything I could about asthma so I could better care for them.
-1	I thought I had an issue with my eyes and my doctor thought it was pink eye. I researched more and determined I had bletharitis.
-1	An acquaintance of mine wasn't feeling well at work,complaining of shortness of breath,and was thinking she had strained herself,and had a hernia. After abut 4 days,I convinced her to see a doctor,telling her it sounded like heart problems,considering I live with CHF...She saw the doctor,and turns out she had had a silent heart attack,
-1	I have been very ill twice before in my life and thought I would die, I have seen many doctors in my life as well bot my parents who are no longer with me suffered terribly and I was with them, i.e. trips to the hospitals and conversations with doctors
1	I was sick for a long time when I was in 9th grade, it was like a cold that never stopped, I kept coughing and my breathing was gurgly I guess, I had a lot of mucus. I was diagnosed with bronchitis. A few years later I had the same symptoms come back so I knew I probably had bronchitis again, went to the doctor and was diagnosed again with bronchitis.
-1	I took care of my Grandmother for a few years, and accompanied her to doctor's appointments. I helped explain her medical information to her. 
1	a lot of people around me have mental health issues so I have done a lot of research
1	I worked in a doctor's office and currently in medical research. 
-1	My father had a stroke a year ago and I was able to identify the signs and get him to the hospital
1	I had an ectopic pregncy 3 years ago and from a previous one I had before that I knew the signs and symptoms. I knew that I would most likely need my other fallopian tube removed. 
1	I worked as a certified nursing assistant through college. I worked in the newborn unit, and learned some medical knowledge through experience. 
1	Same answer as the first answers, my mother's cancer. I keep meticulous notes, read medical jourls, question our health team very closely, and follow message boards a bit obsessively. I quit my job to deal with this. I live it.
1	Passing the CPR test in health class when I was younger took a basic knowledge of health and the techniques that were taught. 
1	I once was on the scene of a car crash in the middle of the night. It was on a small road and there was no one there except the people in the crashed car and my husband and I. The woman in the crashed car was bleeding profusely from what seemed to be a deep wound and I tried to slow the flow of blood by applying pressure on the wound and calming her while we were waiting for emergency responders. 
1	I was taking medicine for strep throat that it turns out I was allergic to. So I took some bedryl to treat the side effects and went to the doctor's as I soon as I could. I'd been through enough medical scares with my children to know what to do in a situation like that.
1	When I first started college I was a nursing student
1	I've had three kids, so I feel I know a lot about pregncy and delivery. I also know how to care for my kids and when medical treatment is necessary.
1	I am a very active person who watches their diet, I have never had a major health issue or anything beyond a cold or flu. 
1	There was a time that I had a mark on my body. It was burning and after a couple of days it began to eat away at my skin. I researched it and eventually had to go to the doctor. After researching it I knew that I had a spider bite and had to go in.
1	"Well if 85% of positive mammograms are false positives, then they aren't really good are they???? I'm proving the high fruit raw lifestyle works. Teeth have stopped decaying out of my head. Dentist would tell me to not do one of the those ""crazy"" grape diets. Yet that style of eating is the ONLY that reverses extreme acidosis in people. The amount of idiocy and low consciousness medical professiols have about human nutrition and health is ridiculous. I suppose it doesn't help that our food system is poisened with pesticides and GMO, certainly makes it harder for those who TRY, to even get well."
-1	When I had allergies and I had to look up online what can help treat it and went to the store and got an over the counter product that can help.
1	I'm not sure how to answer this. Unless you mean that I've always been able to understand my own health issues and discuss treatments and issues with the doctors without any assistance. 
-1	My daughter had strep throat. She had all the symptoms including blisters on her tonsils. I was able to call the dr and make an appointment and inform them what I thought and when I got there the first thing they did was swab her throat. So it was time saving too.
1	I lost my daughter when I was 20. She passed away from SIDS. My mother has a lot of heart and vascular problems as well.
-1	I always get a mammogram.  I did have a false positives done to me a few years ago.  I needed to retake the mammogram , and everything was okay.
-1	I lived overseas for awhile in the jungle.  I got a fungal infection.  After ascertaining what had happened through a medical reference textbook I purchased antifungal medication from a pharmacy and treated myself successfully. 
1	I once had to perform CPR on a stranger because everyone else was panicking. I bought her time until the ambulance came.
-1	Our daughter has suffered from anxiety issues. I've now read so much about anxiety that I feel very very knowledgeable about it, and I've helped her make tremendous progress forward in overcoming or at least maging anxiety. 
-1	I was having back pain and knew that I would need to go to the doctors and that there was probably something wrong with my back that would not be curable passed off of research that I did online and that I would probably need to do ohysical therapy and exercise reguarly and when I went to the doctors it turned out I was right and ended up having to do physical therapy and was given a set of exercises to do everyday.
1	My son seemed to have an issue with ear infections and delayed speech when he was younger.  I was able to recognize the symptoms he was having and get an appointment with a doctor.  My wife and I made the decision to have tubes put into his ears, and it corrected the problem.  He now does not have ear infections and is speaking normally.
1	I used to work in the medical field many years ago. I have experienced many different health issues over the years, including a couple of rare diseases. In this experience, I have had to do a lot of research on finding information about the diseases, treatments and doctors that were familiar with the diseases. 
-1	When I had a baby I read books on  the delivery procedure. I learned all of the steps to the delivery.
1	I do not know. I've had a few medical issues in life but have overcome or live with the consequences of them today, so I rarely think about 'what I know'. I don't know what that means, 'demonstrate'....to who? I don't need to demonstrate to anyone, I just need to take care of myself.
1	I went to the doctors office with a hairline fracture in my left fibula and a rolled ankle. After taking the X-rays I asked him for a soft splint and crutches as I knew this was the normal procedure for my injury.
-1	I like to read articles and research various health issues so that I know what is going on. When I had a back issue I learned as much as possible to get it fixed as best as possible.
1	I went through secondary infertility. I had to learn lots of statistics regarding my chances of conceiving again, as well as the different methods and treatments I should try and their corresponding levels of success.
-1	I had a mammogram years ago. It showed a possible cyst or lump in the breast. The cost of the 2nd scan was $650, which was out of pocket. Turned out that I did not have cancerous cysts, but it cost me quite a bit for proof.
1	I was very flushed and was having a reaction to something I ate. I realized that there were nitrates in my meat that were causing the reaction. I wasn't panicked because I knew the cause and to avoid them in the future.
-1	My mother was having signs of a stroke, and I recognized the signs and quickly called the ambulance so she could be taken to the hospital. I noticed weakness in her arm, face, and slurred speech.
1	Having my spouse diagnosed with diabetes and understanding that that was an increase in sugar in the blood.  Knowing that the pancreas is either not producing enough insulin, not recognizing the insulin produced or not producing any insulin.  Further understanding the need to monitor the diet for total carbs that are ingested during a meal/day to keep blood sugars stable and within the range the doctor set for him.  Also knowing that he is at increased risk for eye problems (needing yearly eye exam), wound healing problems (need to have frequent foot inspections for non healing sores), rel and cardiac issues.
1	I had my grandmother go in to check for cancer as she was showing symptoms. Turns out she did actually have it. 
1	I have Fibromyalgia. I diagnosed myself by putting together all of my symptoms, speaking to a relative that has it, researching it on the internet, and speaking with my doctor.
-1	"I got my finger caught in a garage door.  When I looked at the finger, I saw yellow tissue sticking out.  I immediately realized this required suturing - it wasn't going to be a ""band aid"" fix."
1	I had to make the decision to not resuscitate my mother after her illness. She had kidney failure and it had affected her mental state. She came out of it, but I knew there would be a continuous decline because of the damage done and the chances of a conscious life were little to none.
-1	Had 3 surgeries and I am a nurse.
1	I have experience in phlebotomy and have taken a class to be a phlebotomist part-time. I have used my knowledge of atomy to be able to help patients with their own medical issues.
1	A few years ago I had severe pain in my upper stomach area to the left and figured it was my gallbladder. I went to the emergency room and it was indeed my gallbladder. 
-1	During my previous physical checkup, I came prepared with many questions, after looking up the info online. When I asked my doctor about these questions, he said I was correct.
1	I went to the doctor with an issue that I had been having.  Because of research I had done on my own time I was able to tell the doctor what I thought was going on.  This lined up with further tests the doctor did and he was able to give me a diagnosis and treatment because of the information provided.
1	I have dealt with depression for a lot of my life and it wasn't taken seriously by my family doctor in my teege years.  As a result, I did a lot of research on my own and did what I could to cope.
-1	when I fell off my bike. I knew to apply alcohol and hydrogen peroxide.
-1	I had severe migraines years ago.  I noticed that certain foods would trigger them  more so than others. I found that by not eating certain foods, I could reduce them and not have to take daily medication.
1	That is really hard.  I have torn the ligaments in my ankle several times throughout my life.  So after it happening a time or two, every subsequent time I know right away when it happened, I could just tell the way it felt and I could differentiate between that and just a sprain. I have taken first aid training a couple of times.  
1	I have studied different foods and vitamins that are beneficial for my body. At one time I had high cholesterol. I began taking a prescription for my condition but I decided I did not like the long term side effects. So I decided to take my cholesterol down the tural way. I learned a lot along the way.
-1	When I was a teeger my Mother cut her hand while cooking. I immediately found something to make a tourniquet to stop the bleeding and we got her to the emergency right away. The doctor asked who did that and I said it was me. She commended me for taking the right steps to stop the bleeding and cover the wound. This demonstrated that I had knowledge that I had learned in first aid.
-1	A few years ago a friend of mine had a really bad boil. I had experience with draining and getting rid of boils. So I showed him how to drain it and it went away.
1	I honestly cannot think of an experience where I've had the opportunity to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues, outside of explaining tests or procedures that I have had.
1	I would say every time I get a cold or the flu(rare) that I demonstrate my knowledge of health issues. I actually try to avoid taking any medicines unless its necessary. I think the foods we eat play an important role in our health. So when I do get sick I know that my body needs lots of rest and fluids. I'll take some time off when this happens and I'll get lots of bed rest. I have a juicer and a Vitamix and I'll make lots of fruit and veggie juices to beat the cold.
1	I had a pretty high fever and I knew to go to the doctor so I was able to get treated for strep throat instead of letting it turn into to something else. 
1	I was talking with my parents about issues of diet and nutrition. We were talking about how the medical community has recommended low-fat, high carbohydrate diets for patients with heart problems or at risk for heart attacks for the past 45 years or so, but the evidence that this diet has been effective for reducing heart problems (or for losing weight, for that matter) is poor. They agreed with me, and we further discussed how cutting out sugar and reducing your carbohydrate intake while increasing dietary fat is likely to be the most healthy diet.
1	I was having severe headaches,  not migraine but pretty intense. I looked up probable causes so I could go to the doctor armed with proper questions and description. It was sinusitis and was cleared up pretty quick. 
1	My husband had to have major surgery a few years ago.  He was in the hospital twice for a week each time.  I studied up on all the factors around his illness, and how to help him recover when he got home.  The doctors were very helpful and caring.  
1	i had gestatiol diabetes, I had to monitor my blood sugars and eat to keep those levels down, to ensure that my child and I stayed healthy. Both were born without any side effects from the diabetes because I kept myself under control.
1	Nothing in particular, just life experience.
1	Understanding that high TG was due to my intake of sugar, decreasing my intake of sugar by avoiding soft drinks and switching to black coffee, resulting in a 60% drop in my TG and a lowering of my blood pressure.
1	When I gave birth to my second child, I felt I had a much better understanding of newborns and what sort of conditions might crop up. When the doctor told me he had high bilirubin numbers and was slightly jaundiced, I didn't get upset like I did with my first son, because I knew that this was a common occurrence that rarely turned out to be serious. I was able to understand what the doctor was telling me and able to enjoy my son's first few days instead of stressing out.
1	I have basic understanding of medical knowledge of simple diagnoses. Plus I can use my common sense to calculate the rest.
1	One time a coworker had a stroke at work.  She couldn't speak, but I had her squeeze my hands and one hand was barely functioning, so I knew she was having a stroke.  Somebody called 911 and I stayed with her.
1	I read news on WebMD website . It is a great source of information
1	I had an issue with TMJ for a while, and this forced me to do my own research because it can be a controversial subject.  I learned everything about the topic, and was able to find a good doctor.  The doctor even mentioned how knowledgeable I was on the subject.
1	I was trained how to heal wounds on a battlefield. I helped take care of injured passengers when a bus got knocked down on the highway. I bandaged many severe injuries using a first aid kit from the bus..
1	I suppose having had the flu throughout my childhood has shown me when I should panic, or when it is just general symptoms of the flu.  So this (very) basic knowledge lets me know that I just have the flu.  Altertely if the symptoms were different or more severe that I'm used to, it would be indicative that maybe I should look further into it, and perhaps seek medical professiol assistance.
1	In cross country I felt tired and my legs were heavy. I knew something was wrong. I went to the doctor and I had iron anemia.
1	I had 2 heart attacks so I learned a lot about cholesterol. I did the diet thing and exercise and it made no difference at all in my numbers. So I take meds. They work. So I learned about hereditary stuff. No much you can do but take your meds.
-1	looking up things on webmd
1	I can hear my knee popping and thought I had a tear in my meniscus, when I went to the Doctor I did.
1	When I took care of a termilly ill family member, I was able to make sure that medications were correct from pharmacy and was able to question doctors and/or any orders given.
1	I started to pay more attention to the nutrition facts once I knew about my family's risk of high blood pressure.
1	When I had health issues and needed blood testing, I understood what the levels and recommended values meant. I also understand the need to eat less carbohydrates for my health and how to find them on a package.
1	I can't think of any.
-1	I was having issues with chronic headaches and had been taking magnesium to try to help. It was not working and I remembered successful magnesium absorption is largely based on amount of Vit D in body. I went to doctor and got prescription vit D and solved the problem.
1	While I have my own health issues, my husband has even more of them. And since he's a bit less capable of taking care of everything himself, I am the one who takes care of coorditing a lot of his healthcare. This means compiling information for new doctors, doing paperwork, and giving information. This experience has given me the insight (generally) to know what kind of information is important to a doctor.
1	I've had to look after my sister with diabetes, so I've had knowledge of that. For example I know about her insulin pump, how to mage her blood sugars, etc.  Other than that I haven't had too many situations where I've had to demonstrate my knowledge of medical issues. 
1	I have an Associates Degree in Occupatiol Therapy and I worked as a therapist for 16 years.  Although I no longer work in the medical field, my years of experience have given me greater knowledge of medical issues than the general public.
1	My daughter has type 1 diabetes. I have read extensively about this condition and the best ways to thrive with it. When we go to her endocrinologist, I feel very knowledgable about her condition and always understand what her doctor recommends.
-1	When I was having chest pains, I knew it was because of the birth control pill. Because birth control can cause you to be prone to blood clots, which is a early symptom.
1	I went to the beach with my best friend.  He flatly refused to use sunscreen, despite my advice that he do so.  He ended up with a bad sunburn, while I, who used sunscreen, did not.  
-1	Once I was having problems with murder blood pressure. It would go up more after I checked it. After reading online and seeing my Dr, turns out to be anxiety. So I stopped checking my blood pressure because it was making it worse.
1	I demonstrated knowledge of health issues when I identified symptoms I was feeling as needing medical attention. I don't generally think about or discuss problems, so listening to my body I think shows an intuitive knowledge, even if I don't have the capacity to completely break down the problem's cause or even the solution.
1	I don't have a specific moment showing my knowledge of a health or medical issue.
1	I've discussed depression and medicines with various people over the years. I've taken health classes in high school. I look up various things on webmd.
1	Recently I had been having problems which led me to believe I was suffering from an enlarged prostate.  Doing some research indicated I was correct.  This was later confirmed by my physician.
1	I took a human bio course and it taught me a lot about health and medical studies. Before taking the class, I didn't really know much of anything, but being able to take the class and learn about different diseases and problems was nice.
1	I am able to have a professiol conversation with our pediatrician. She understands my health background as well as my ability to alyze research related to my daughter's health.
1	I was in the emergency room with a heart rate of 180. The physicians and nurses did not know what was wrong and I had to give them the me of my condition and an actual physical handout about it so they could properly treat me. I filled them in while they frantically googled my sources. 
-1	Persolly my many health issues. As well as being a ER Unit Secretary in my younger days. Plus I like medical stuff to an extent.
-1	I had a friend who suffered from depression. I told him to fix his diet and remove meat. Few months later, he started feeling normal.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when i found out that myaubnt ad cancer and i really started looking into the treatmentsd and causes of it.
-1	I have no such experience. My doctor gives me the statistics about smoking all the time but I never remember.
1	My mom has battled breast cancer twice and my dad has fought squamous cell carcinoma. I've been in and out of hospitals with them for most of my entire life.
1	This is absurd.. I am not a doctor or a medical professiol so how am I to respond to this? I will only humor this with a response that makes sense and that is based on my experiences with myself and family I learned about various allergies, diseases and ailments. Other then that? I have no knowledge or medical issues. as for health? same thing- experience.
1	Most of my experience with health or medical issues comes from directly interacting with my doctors. I have never had any serious medical emergencies, but for illnesses and other medical issues, I usually go right to the doctor and try to apy attention to what they say about the illness, cause and treatment. 
1	Being diagnosed with fibromyalgia as a teeger.  I learned a lot then.
-1	My boyfriend's mother was having the same issues as I had previously had, which I learned by diagnosis, so i told her what to do to treat symptoms until she could get in to see the doctor.
1	I checked my blood pressure at wal mart and found that it was high.  I went to a doctor and was prescribed medication.  I read the information given to me by the doctor and paid attention to the possible side effects and things I shouldn't take or do while taking my bp medications.
1	A few years ago I sustained an energy after doing a workout that involved weightlifting. Based on the pain that I was experiencing and the sorts of movements that aggravated the pain, I was able to correctly deduce that the pain was caused by tendonitis. I went to a physical therapist and he concluded that my hypothesis was correct.
1	My niece was walking barefoot in our yard and stepped on a rusty il. I told her she would need a tetanus show, so I drove her to the local clinic.
1	When doctors asked me questions at a visit.  It was almost like they were testing me with the information they were trying to give me to see if I understood or not.
1	One time my mom described some symptoms she was having, and some awful diseases her doctors were checking her for. I asked her what medications she was taking, searched online, and was able to figure out her medications were causing her symptoms rather than Parkinson's disease, or something equally as terrible. 
-1	I had a severe car accident.I got crack in my spil cord.My doctors told me everything about the issue and also well informed me about two ways of treatment either no surgery only bed rest for 6 months or surgery with 75% chances of complete recovery.
1	I wouldn't say that I have a whole lot of knowledge, but I did convince my mother to see a doctor when she had a small mole.  It turned out that it was a small tumor and she was able to get it removed with long lasting issues.
1	seemed like most of it was just calculating results. seemed easy
1	When my brother was hospitalized for rhabdomyalisis, I diagnosed him before the doctor did. The Dr. thought I didn't know what I was talking about, and was certain it was something else, so he kept running more tests even though they continually proved me right.
1	I had to give a presentation about CRISPR, the gene editing tool, explaining how it's different from other methods and why it's capable of completely curing genetic diseases.
1	I don't really have much knowledge. My mind runs away with everything and makes me think symptoms are more serious than they really are. So over the years I've learned to deal with that. I suppose that's my best answer. Whenever my heart skips a beat or I get chest pains I've now learned to ignore them and that's it's just my anxiety. Problem is what if it isn't? I just hope if and when it is more serious that I'll be able to tell the difference. But as far as medical knowledge goes I have very little. The use the internet which is my best friend and my worst enemy at those times LOL.
1	I was told to take a certain prescription for a condition, I was able to tell what I was supposed to take and how it would affect my persol health. 
1	I have had a benign heart condition since 2009, I have dealt with many doctors and specialists since. It was eventually decided my condition was not life threatening and benign and nothing to worry about.  I have become very knowledgeable in medical terminology.
1	After receiving a new prescription for pain, I researched it online at the NIH website and 2 others, looking for side effects.
-1	I was able to tell my friend what to expect when having a c-section. I had had one so I knew about the recovery and had a few tips and ideas to share also. 
1	I had some training on inhalers for asthma. When one of my students with asthma started wheezing I knew to send him to the nurse for his inhaler.
1	I grew up relatively average compared to my peers, then from high school I started excercising a little, join some sport clubs, then in college, I was fortute to meet some people who are very good at body training, control, training, these include trainers, athletes, martial artist, yogis, so I for a period of 6 years, I had been active and study about health, bodies, and I found how to get my body in good shape in a healthy tural way,  and I also worked at nutriol center where I learn alot about supplement indsutries, as well as nutriol content and suplement, tual medicine as well as modern medicine, and since then, I have been rarely if ever gotten sick. except for some occasion where I need antibiotic due to bacterial which I have to buy some medicine.
1	I went to get my blood taken. I told the nurse that everyone usually has trouble getting blood out of my arm and they have to use the butterfly needle and take it out of my hand. The nurse didn't believe me and she tried to get blood out of my arm 3 times before giving up and getting it out of my hands. 
1	I had a c-section with my first child and there were complications because of it. I ended up in and out of the hospital for the first month after she was born. It cause me to take a bunch of medication and learn about all of the issues that were occurring with me. If I didn't take care of myself properly due to the infection i has, there would have been serious problems.
-1	My dad had many heart attacks before he died.  I learned to recognize the signs that he was having a heart attack, early in life.  I then went and took First Aid to make sure I'd be able to help if we were every out together and he needed help.  Well, he ended up having a heart attack (his last major one) in the car with me, my mom, my husband and daughter.  I watched his behavior change and when I saw what was happening, I reached forward in the car and pushed the stick shift to neutral.  I then ran out of the car to the closest store and screamed for them to call 911 for an ambulance because my dad was having a massive heart attack.  I then got back to the car, tried to get his arms raised and undid his tie.  He couldn't respond and was having major difficulty breathing and I made sure he hadn't swallowed his tongue and gave him mouth to mouth until the ambulance came.  He did die later on that night despite everything that was attempted to save him. 
-1	Probably talking to friends and relatives about what's going on with their health. I read a lot so sometimes I'm able to offer an insight about a pain they're experiencing in a certain part of their body.
1	I have to give myself the correct dosages of medication on a daily basis, which I feel shows that I have a basic knowledge of medical issues.
1	I was having some health issues and was tired all of the time. I did some research online and diagnosed myself with underactive thyroid.  I went to the doctor and got blood work and did end up have hypothyroidism and have been on medication for it ever since.
1	I'm a recovering alcoholic, and I've been sober for a significant period of time. At one point, a doctor wanted to give me a prescription for a benzodiazepine. Because I'm aware of how similar benzodiazepines are to alcohol, I refused the prescription, for I felt it was too risky.
1	I was diagnosed with kidney stones 25 years ago. I can now recognize when a kidney stone attack is coming on by paying attention to the symptoms my body gives such as blood in the urine and change of stools.
-1	I don't really have any persol experiences other when my children were sick. I gut used gut gut feelings about when to call the doctor.
1	When my father was going through the process of being diagnosed with alzheimer's disease, I had to attend every doctor's appointment with him and my mother because they couldn't understand a lot the information they were getting.  The doctor felt most confident talking directly to me and having me try to relay the information to my parents in terms they understand.  My parents also relied on me to help them make the decisions regarding my father's care.
-1	I was shown ultrasound images of my lower back due to chronic lower back pain, was given options regarding addressing the back pain and/or it's symptoms and I ultimately chose micro back surgery.
1	I haven't had many experiences that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. The closest I've probably come to having an experience like that is that when someone I know talks about a medical condition, I usually know what it is already and they don't need to explain. I also have some basic first aid knowledge if that counts, and I've used it a couple of times during my life.
1	"Years ago, I had gallstones so bad that it blocked my bile duct. I turned yellow, my urine turned brown and I was in terrible pain. I had no idea what it was, but was quickly diagnosed and rushed in to have the stones ""scrubbed"" out. Two weeks later they removed my gallbladder. Recently, a friend began complaining of similar symptoms. I ran through all my previous experiences with her and she headed off to get it checked. Sure enough, she had gallstones. I'm no doctor, but was glad my experience could help someone else. "
1	I noticed that I was getting dizzy sometimes and also had headaches. It made me realize that I might be having high blood pressure do to some articles that I had read before.
-1	i woke up one night after hearing my wife crying in the kitchen. I found her curled up in a fetal position. I asked what happened. she said she ate something and suddenly felt severe stomach pain. I immediately had a hunch it could be stomach ulcers. I rushed her to the emergency room and it turned out to be true.
1	The other day my kid passed out and we took her to the ER. They were telling us it could possibly be a seizure which I clearly knew that she had just fainted. Thank goodness it was not a seizure.
1	I recognized some signs of illness that I was having.  I went to the doctor and told him about it.
1	One time I was prescribed medicine for an infection. The medicine didn't work, so the doctor prescribed a different medicine. When I picked up the second medicine, I asked the pharmacist if it had any of the restrictions as the first medicine, such as what foods I should avoid and when would be the best time to consume it. 
-1	work experience
1	I went for a testicular cancer test, and they used a sonogram to look for lumps. They said that I had a lot of weird veins and arteries down there, so that's what was feeling lumpy, and I shouldn't worry too much because it wasn't cancer. So now when I do my self-screening for testicular cancer in the shower, I have learned to feel for veins and arteries before I panic and think that I have a tumor.
1	When I was diagnosed with prostate cancer and before I made a decision about what treatment to select I read everything I could about the different methods of treatments and the likely outcome, both physically and emotiolly. I discussed each option with the doctor and then made a choice.
1	Every time I receive a new medication I need to understand medical issues. When I listen to the doctor describe a condition or how a medicine works, I need to understand medical issues. 
1	When properly advising a family member to use a particular medicine. They soon began to feel better. 
1	I had a previous knee injury and learned a lot about how to help it heal and what was actually wrong with it. A few months ago, my boss had the same injury. I was able to help give him tips on how to help it heal and explain to him what was actually wrong in easier terms than his doctor had.
1	I had a hard time getting pregnt so I researched a lot about fertility issues and medical treatments, also learning ways to live healthier to help promote fertility. 
-1	Self-diagnoses of sicknesses. Knowing when to go to the doctor. Not being dead.
1	a friend cut her hand badly and i was able to stop the bleeding by applying pressure and keeping the wound above her heart. we then cleaned and bandaged her wound which healed fine. 
1	when i was in my 20's, i had to deal with endometriosis and infertility. i talked to doctors and everyone i could about these issues. i read books and searched the internet for anything i could find about these issues. i felt like i knew more than my fertility doctor did!
-1	If a family member or myself have a simple medical issue they usually ask me what to do, and I almost always can help out or at least stop them from worrying. For example, my father in law had a high blood sugar reading and I helped him get it down and advised him to get tested for diabetes
1	When playing hockey there have been times when I knew if an injury was serious or not.   It comes with age and experience and not just levels of pain.   When you learn your body you can tell when something is really not right or is just a soreness that will go away.
1	"I've been dealing with clinical depression for over 12 years. During that time I've done significant ""reading up"" on anti-depressants (been on 6) and into CBT. In fact, I just started CBT on-line [ MooyGym ]because I live 60 miles from my doctor. And I've learned a *lot* about how the brain works (or doesn't)."
1	I had for years digestive issues and a sour taste in my mouth in the mornings. I also seemed to have a slight cough. I pretty much knew it was GERD, but held off for years going to the doctor for it. When it got unmageable and filly went through the tests, I was correct in my thinking.
1	I had a dog who was dying of heart failure. He was on lasix and something else for a year. He slowly declined until he could no longer get around. He could only have so much lasix or his kidneys would shut down, too little and he would swell with fluid. Less than a year from that. The exact same thing happened to my grandfather. So I knew the stages that would be happening to him because of the dog's issue. Lo and behold he lived a year just like the dog and passed away the same way as the dog. 
1	I was going into surgery to get my gallbladder removed.  I wanted to know what was going to happen before, during, and after the surgery.  I did some research online.  I talked to the anesthesiologist before being put out and talked to him about the drugs he was giving me.  He asked me if I was a medical student or a nurse because of how much I knew.  I told him no, I just did my research.
1	After experiencing the symptoms of both cold and flu over the years, I know what to look for and how to treat it/if I should see a doctor.  Also, after having numerous pap smears and mammograms I know what the results mean after hearing it some many times. 
1	"I have been a chronic opiate user for about 16 years. I have Hepatitis C, most likely as a result from using my same needle repeatedly when new ones were not available. I was blessed to be able to get to go to a doctor that prescribed me Suboxone (new medication treatment for heroin addiction) and because I did a lot of research on treatments for my particular issue, I knew to alert the doctor that I did have Hep C because the ""blocking agent"" in the Suboxone (keeps you from being able to experience euphoria from opiates besides the buprenorphine in the Suboxone), the loxone, has reportedly effected liver function in some people. Now the doctor is going to watch my blood labs to see whether or not I can stay on the current medicine or if I need to switch to a similar version of the drug that does not have the loxone in it."
1	i can usually self diagnose through the internet so when i go in (i need to be damn near dead or something is broken to go in) i tell the doctor so here's what i have (typically strep) he agrees prescribes the z-pac and away i go
1	I used my medical knowledge when it I had to decide a treatment plan for my child when he was diagnosed with bronchitis. I made sure the medication prescribed did not have side effects and they were absolutely necessary. 
1	I just research stuff on medical websites, and talk to my doctors. I've had a couple minor issues in my life where I've been pretty back to back with doctors, so besides all of that, nothing really.
1	I have taken numerous health related college courses and am well versed in how to find and obatian medical information and how to research medical jourls. I had a close relative that was in the hospital after a very bad accident and I was able to research their condition and gain the knowledge to help them make informed medical decisions as part of their recovery.  
1	Signs of infection in a wound. I had an ingrown hair that got infected. The area got red and swollen and pus started to build up under the skin. It took a while for the wound to heal after it was excised due to build up. So I learnt about how to know when something is infected and signs and symptoms associated with it.
-1	Reading through document about bell's palsy and knowing what to expect because a relative had experienced it.
1	A couple of months ago, I started a keto diet. This diet is similar to the Atkins diet. The major difference is you add more fats and healthy oils. After a week or two of no sugar and lows carbs, you're body will go into Ketoisis. This uses stored fat instead of carbs for energy.
-1	I remember a friend telling me he suffered from very strong headaches that made him sensitive to light and sometimes sounds. He complained that the pain was a pulsing one. You could always describe it as throbbing. I mentioned to him that it sounded like a migraine headache, something I suffer from. I told him to see his doctor to make sure, but it sounded like a migraine to me. Turns out that was what it exactly was.  
-1	When my husband was sick, he would not go to the doctor or hospital-I knew he was close to dying and called an ambulance, he had septic shock and they had to warm his blood with a plastic topping he was that close to death.
1	ANytime i have i make decisions about my health and whether or not to exersize or go to the doctor for any reason, i am demonstrating my knowldege
1	About 10 years ago I self-diagnosed my Autism Spectrum Disorder. I was filly professiolly diagnosed about 8 years later. During that time I learned more than the doctors who refused to listen to my concerns.
1	I've worked as a life and health insurance agent in the past. Often I would help older people with medicare supplement plans. Going through the various plans, overages, deductibles, etc., took a fair amount of knowledge. Drug pricing, altertives and availability. Hospital costs, referral procedures. I would often help them to understand medical terminology.
1	My mother was diagnosed as pre-diabetic and had blood pressure around 200. She was put on meds that turned her into a zombie, but necessarily to save her life. I read up on her medication and found that over long periods of it could have negative effects on the kidneys and had her go back in to see about a different medication, they did tests and found high amounts of protein in her urine because of the medication and was at high risk of kidney damage.
1	I tore my ACL, and had to decide if I would have surgery to replace it or not, and if so, what I would use to replace it. After reviewing the information, I decided to have the surgery, and to use a cadaver part to fix it.
1	My grandmother had heart surgery and she developed a staff infection. They also found pre-cancer cells in her throat at the same time. My family heard cancer and freaked out. I was more concerned with the infection because she was old and pre-cancer cells could take decades to actually turn into cancer. The doctor said i was right and calmed my family the immediate concern was the infection and the heart.   
-1	The research I did on my own issues and the books I read. I looked at WebMD, Wikipedia (even though it's not secure), and other sites. I even took an atomy course where we picked a disease relevant to the chapter and wrote a short discussion board post about it.
1	I was the caregiver and advocate for my father who was dying of lung cancer. I dealt with his doctors and the hospice nurses daily for many months.
1	On one of my doctor's visit, the appointment had to end early because of an emergency. The doctor didn't have enough time to explain to me in person all the questions I had, so he gave me a small booklet instead. I had no problem understanding the material without any help from healthcare professiols.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I was younger I got a rare disease that made me really sick. During this time I was forced to start learning and understanding different medicine and side effects. 
1	I have learned that the food you eat and the exercise you do are very important to your health. It keeps your body strong and your stress level low. 
1	I had a liver disease issue. I looked up information on the matter. I became knowledgeable. I discussed the matter with my doctor in an informed manner.
-1	This may seem a bit odd, but my mother was a nurse and once told me that you can judge health by stool samples. As a result of being told this, I would not allow my children to flush the toilet until they were past the age of 10 so I could check their stools each time they went. If they had a loose stool, I varied their diet. If their stool appeared hard, I varied their diet. Also, when they had too much energy, rather than assume they needed medication, I had them exercise - it worked every time. And one other instance, my younger son was slow to talk. An in-law suggested something was wrong. I explained he had no problem communicating what he wanted or needed and, thus, nothing was wrong. I was right; she was wrong.
1	I have self treated illnesses that most people believe you need to go to the doctor for. 
-1	i just had to listen to doctors and do research on my own
1	"I'm not really sure. I had cancer twice so I guess as I was doing chemo I understood how all this stuff was supposed to work. I knew Everytime I went to the hospital what the routine was, and knew everywhere I needed to go. I'm not sure I really ""demonstrated"" my knowledge but this is the only thing I can think of."
1	My mom went to the ER thinking that she was having a heart attack or at the very least heart problems.  I accompanied her to the hospital although I told her her symptoms were not necessarily heart related and that she really just needed to relax and work on stress reduction.  The doctors agreed with me but went ahead and performed heart stress test.  There was nothing found.
1	I honestly cannot think of such an experience.
1	I interned at a cancer research center where I read a lot of documents on health/medical issues.
1	When taking my son for a follow up appointment after getting croup, I felt I could understand and communicate with the doctor about all of the medications given and treatment protocol. 
1	I have asthma. When I was about 15 someone explained that my difficulty breathing was due to too much air in my lungs, not as it seemed, too little. I used this information to train myself to breathe in more shallowly and breathe out more completely. It seems to help when it gets bad.
1	I developed a keloid scar and was going to a dermatologist to get rid of it.  On the first visit she was attempting to describe how it developed in layman terms and I responded by using the medical terminology.  She laughed and said oh you are smarter than you look.
-1	I fell down a flight of stairs.  My son insited I broke my ankle but I assured him I probably had a hair line fracture.  The bone had not come through and I was somewhat able to walk on it.
1	"A few weeks ago, my brother hit his head at work. He'd had several mild concussions as a child and pretty much self-diagnosed himself as having another one this time. (Yes, that's wildly irresponsible. Yes, he should have gone to the doctor. You know what, tell it to fucking Nikki Haley because it's her fault he's not insured.) He did some research about concussion and painkillers and said he needed to take something other than Excedrin, preferably Tylenol. He was pretty upset because we didn't have any Tylenol and his head hurt. So I realized that often, different me brands of the same medicine will have similar mes, and another painkiller that ended in ""ol"" might have the same active ingredient as Tylenol. I looked up the active ingredients online and checked the bottle to make sure, and then gave him a Midol from my supply. So most of the medical knowledge in that scerio came from him, but I was the one who realized that Midol would probably help and did the research to verify it."
1	When my aunt was sick with cancer a few years ago, I read up about information from John Hopkins to see how I could help help and then told her about it and provided literature. It showed her how she could alleviate pain through a lot of methods that I persolly assisted her with, and later it her cancer went into recession, happily.
-1	I had to go get a mammogram so I researched online about it and learned stuff.
-1	When my mother in law got sick with cancer she needed alot of support.  Since having going through it with my mom, I was able to tell her some of the things that she would possibly experience with chemo.  We were able to go to the store to get some things to make her comfortable throughout the process.
1	My daughter frequently has rashes and I have taken her in a few times to have them checked out but they are just eczema. Now I am able to diagnose that myself. We also are able to handle small issues at home like colds and mild fevers with confidence.
1	I worked in a residential care facility for 11 years as a certified medical aide. It was my job to dispense medication according to doctor's orders, as well as provide medical care to patients who had medical procedures done like surgeries, for example. We also had clients who would have to do certain things to prepare them for the procedures, which usually included a list of doctors orders like fasting, colon cleansing, etc.
-1	I was having inflammation in my sweat glands and I researched what my symptoms were and I found out I actually had a skin disease and my doctor ended up diagnosing me with what i had found
1	An experience that occurred that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues would be when my mother was telling my about some symptoms she was experiencing which raised some red flags. I was extremely concerned with the symptoms she was describing so I insisted she speak with a medical professiol to be examined to find out what were causing her symptoms.
1	Several years ago I was having trouble getting pregnt. I had to go through a bunch of fertility treatments including giving myself shots. I researched everything and spoke with medical professiols on many occasions. Not long after my first child was born, I had a friend going through the same exact thing that I had gone through. I was able to explain a lot of what she would have to do and what it would be like for her since I had just gone through it.
1	My boyfriend has MS and during the time of his diagnosis I spent a lot of time doing research in order to to keep up with doctors when discussing his medical options, as well as on medications that were mentioned.
1	Nothing special, It's just migraine.
1	I've lead a very healthy life however I've had 2 brothers who both passed from cancer. My oldest brother died first and I was the only relative to be there for him. Because of that, when my middle brother passed I had a working knowledge of questions to ask the attending physicians and what to expect when the time actually came.
1	I was a C a few years ago.  I also took pharmacology in order to get in to nursing school. I never entered nursing school, although I was admitted.
1	When my daughter fell and hurt her ankle, I was able to stabilize and care for her until we were able to get to a night time clinic for professiol care. The doctor on staff confirmed that I had provided the correct temporary care for her.
1	I have some experience dealing with IBS which hasn't responded that well to conventiol treatment. I have been able to learn about ways to mitigate it without having to take drugs.
-1	I have high blood pressure and high cholesterol so I am familiar with medical terms and how they affect my life. I was a corrections officer in the infirmary and had several cases that I was able to help because of recognizing certain symptoms.  
1	I have asthma so that has made me more aware of my health choices and medical issues. 
1	One time I was talking with a co-worker and she was talking about her nephew that had been born with heart defects.  I know a lot about congenital heart defects because my daughter has that also.
1	When my mother doted her kidney to my aunt, I feel like I learned a lot about medical issues. The entire family felt the need to educate ourselves on the issue. Overall, I feel like I became much more comfortable with the medical environment as a result.
1	At one point in my life i was constantly sore and fatigued. No matter how much sleep i had i would always be tired and had poor recovery from excercise. After researching and cutting out all forms of sugar, processed foods, and dairy and started to eat a plant based diet, My health became amazing. I looked and felt amazing. I never even imagined it was possible to feel so good and have so much energy
-1	I recently went through surgery to remove some abnormal cells off of my cervix and this opened my eyes to better women's health.
1	Like I stated  eariler  in this survey, Im a type 1 diabetic.  Im a mamber of many support  groups and  have built  my own  glucos moniter  so that i could  get my  blood sugars  on my smart watch. 
-1	I had to take an MRI on my knees to look for problems. The nurse was trying to explain to me how it worked but I already knew how because I had read about them. 
1	In the past, I have had kidney stones. During the emergency room visit, I was given an IV of an anti-inflammatory drug. I was also told to drink plenty of fluids and was forced to urite. I was able to successfully pass the stone.
-1	I had really bad pains in my right side after eating several times.  I suspected it was my gall bladder because I have friends wohad similar problems.  I had to visit the doctor.  I was correct.
-1	My daughter has a history of passing out and when it happened the first time she had a battery of tests that told us that nothing was wrong with her. It happened several more times and while teachers and coaches freaked out when it happened, I informed them that it was likely caused by my daughter being under the weather - having a cold come on or a low grade fever - as that is what caused these episodes previously. I knew this because of the previous doctor visits and asking questions while at these visits. 
1	My youngest daughter fell and she thought she broke her wrist. It was swollen but not deformed and she was able to move her hand and fingers. I iced it and waited a day and saw no bruising, so I assumed it was sprained and not broken. I guess I could have been wrong, but in this situation I was right. The swelling went down with ice and the pain was gone in a couple days.
-1	When I tried to eat salads
1	After i was diagnosed with Type II diabetes (three years ago) i got little to no help from my Dr. So, i took to the net and learned everything i could about it. One thing i learned is that i can deduct the fiber count from the carb count and that will be my total net carb intake.   When i was at my Dr's office and mentioned this, she did not seem to know about it or was surprised that i knew about. 
1	I recently had kidney stones again. I had them once before a year ago, and when I started having pain in my back I knew that it was most likely kidney stones. I went to the doctor and it took a while for them to do tests to find it but eventually they found the stone in my ureter. I was right about my diagnosis. 
1	A time that I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues in my life was when I was with my friend David. David suffers from diabetes and fainted when we were out walking the streets of shville. I was very aware of his condition and ran into the nearest restaurant and got orange juice. We rushed back to David and gave him the orange juice and some food and he was able to get oriented pretty quickly after that before checking his sugar and insulin levels. 
-1	
1	When I was diagnosed with thyroid disease and the depression that is often related to the disease did not go away after being medicated and having normal results, I researched and found that I may need an addition medication to help with the absorption of the synthroid. I spoke with my doctor and he prescribed me the additiol medication to help me absorb the synthroid better. As a result, my depression did go away... which could have been due to my request...I also have had other chronic health issues that I am knowledgeable about only because I have been undergoing treatment for decades. I also noticed a friend having neurological side effects from long term haldol use. I told this friend that I thought he may have tardive dyskinesia which, as it turned out, he did...   Other than that I do not believe I have a great knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	When I birthed my son, I took no preparation courses and I handled the birth well. I understood the progression of labor to delivery and knew what to expect without educating myself otherwise. 
1	having gone to the doctors myself and then going with my family members
-1	"An experience that demonstrated my knowledge was at my friends place. My friend's father complained about swelling on a bruise located on this kneecap. He apparently still believes in old methods of injuries and says that there is bad ""chi"" blocking. He would take a slipper to smack the bruise and this gives him relief. I was really shocked at this thinking and I had to stop him and explained that the swelling is because the vessels are damaged so the blood is clogged in the area which gives the swelling look. His solution should be massaging the area so the blood flows away."
1	I just go to the doctor and have seen people be diagnosed. I know basic stuff
1	My daughter was stung by a wasp last August. We were celebrating my ex-wife's birthday with her when this happened, and she has a tendency to panic about things. I thought she was just comforting the little one upstairs, but when I went to check she was on the phone with 911 concerned about allergic reaction. It had been long enough that it was pretty clear our daughter wasn't going to have any kind of serious 911-warranting emergency reaction so I helped the operator convince her that she was overreacting and calm her down.
1	I have a undergrad degree in human biological sciences. This degree is essentially a pre-med degree. 
1	I enjoy reading articles on health from many sources. My mother is also a doctor and tends to explain things to me about medical issues. Even if I ask her a general question, she wants to give me much more information than I asked for.
1	I got salmonella poisoning one time, I was very sick for 5 days. I filly took my temperature and it was at 105 degrees. I knew that anything above 104 could be deadly, so I arranged a ride to take me to the emergency room.
1	I had a condition in which my ear produced wax without stop. A friend of mine started having the same problem as me some years later and I was able to help him in solving the problem.
1	I remember a spring where I was constantly congested and had itchy eyes. With the knowledge I had about my symptoms and exterl factors, I guessed I had allergies or hay fever. I felt confident in knowing why my body was like that.
1	what i typically do to help my hypertension is read a lot of nutritiol labels. i try to keep my sodium intake fairly low (a lot of salt makes me really bloated anyway) and i always look at fat and carb content. this is something i do every time i buy a packaged food that has a label on it. if it doesn't have a label, i look it up on my phone if i am shopping. this helps me be much more knowledgeable and aware of what i am eating.
1	One experience that demonstrates my medical knowledge was that I lost about 30 pounds over two years and gained a good amount of healthy lean muscle. Getting fit involved learning about and counting calories, choosing healthy proteins and carbohydrate sources with enough fat, and learning about exercise. Through this learning process, I was able to lose this weight in a healthy way, and improve in my efforts at the gym greatly. 
1	In general, I have little knowledge of health and medical issues. The only thing I can think of to describe is a time in my early twenties when I went on a no-grain diet. I had read about the diet and what it entailed, and while looking back, I think it was a poor choice, I was clearly acting on knowledge (however misguided) of a health topic. 
1	I worked as an Arizo Paramedic for 10 years
1	I had a knowledge of health issues when I saw a spot on my mom's hand. I knew the ABCD method of detecting skin cancer, so I told my mom she should get to a doctor because it fit all the criteria. Sure enough, the doctor said that it was skin cancer after he performed a biopsy and she had surgery to remove it. Luckily it was still in the early stages, but the doctor said I should be proud of myself for noticing and knowing the criteria, because if I had just brushed it off, it could have gotten a lot worse. 
1	My husband is a T1 diabetic, my daughter was born with spi bifida and my grandmother is blind. I have a lot of experience with hospitals, doctors, and their forms.
-1	MY HUSBAND WAS FEELING DIZZY AND FELT WEAK. KNOWING THAT MY MOM'S FAMILY HAD LOW BLOOD SYMPTOMS AND AFTER CHECKING HIS BLOOD PRESSURE, I KNEW HIS SUGAR WAS LOW. SO, I GAVE HIM ORANGE JUICE.
1	I 'm not sure that I really have one. I am on medications for anxiety and depression. Before they figured out what worked for me, I went through a long list of medications that did not work, so in that sense, I was able to determine what worked for me. 
1	I cut my finger while working in the dirt. I had to keep working, but i knew mi finger would get infected if I did without taking care of it. So I washed it, cleaned it with peroxide, bandaged it then put a glove over my hand. It healed fine and never got infected
1	When I was diagnosed with asthma, I had no idea what it was and it really tested my knowledge.
1	I was able to help my mom choose the correct insulin when she was faced with a choice of switching medicine. I was able to help her read and understand the benefits and side effects of each drug.
1	My friend broke his arm a few years back. I was the only one around so I made a splint out of sweater and some wood. When we got to the ER, the nurse complimented me on my splint.
1	After a mammogram showed an area of question, I knew not to panic right away as there could be different reasons for this. Sure enough, after a follow up, it was shown to just be folded skin.
1	I was sent home from the hospital and told to monitor my intake and outake to check for kidney function.  I measured everything I drank and all urine to determine whether or not to call the doctor.  At one point, my intake was almost twice my outtake.  I called the doctor and was hospitalized because my kidneys were shutting down.
-1	I just have a general knowledge about health and medicine. I do not have any significant expertise, and i have not gone to med school. But when my son scrapes his knee, I clean the wound and put on a band aid. 
-1	Well one occassion where i was having severe headaches everyday for about a week without stopping i knew something was wrong. I went to the doctor and i already was hoping for them to do a head scan to see what was wrong. They showed me i had severe chronic migrane and i needed to start taking a few medications . I totally understood everything when it comes to my health and how much i know my body
1	I went with a relative to the doctor for a medial emergency. The doctor made assumptions and gave them the wrong diagnosis. They began ordering all kinds of tests that were for the wrong things. I told them what to really check for based on the symptoms and I was correct. They canceled the tests and changed the diagnosis. 
1	A couple of years ago, I began to feel extremely anxious. This is a problem because it told me my anti-anxiety/anti-depressant medication was no longer doing its job. My doctor chose to make no adjustments. I knew, from being told by several different therapists, that eventually mental health medications can either stop working or bring your brain chemistry up to a level where it's no longer needed. That I might need off the medication or to be switched to a different one. My doc seemed uware of this. When I couldn't get the help I needed, I changed docs.
-1	When I decided to get into shape. I did all my due diligence and learned the value of eating clean and exercising regularly. By learning to restrict my calories and exercising to create a caloric deficit. This not only helped me drop the pounds but helped with my asthma. 
1	I have two elderly parents who live part time in Florida, where I live, and I am usually called upon to help them if there are any serious health issues that come up as the rest of my family lives up north. I have more than once had to spend time in the hospital as the only receiver of their health info for the family.
1	My child was sick and caught croup. My wife freaked out and said we should go to the hospital, I told her there was nothing they could do and to just make a doctor's appointment instead.
1	My wife had a tooth pulled and it would not stop bleeding. I told her to put a tea bag pver it and that would help stop the bleeding.
1	When I was diagnosed with Trigemil Neuralgia, my neurologist was surprised to find that I actually knew what that was, and what the treatments for it were.  I had done some research prior to going in to see what could have been causing such terrible pain.  My research came up with the TN diagnosis.  However, I wanted a professiol's opinion before deciding with any certainty that TN was indeed what I had, or requesting treatment for it.
1	When dealing with my children I have to fill out all there medical forms and deal with there illnesses or injuries.   I would say just having children you learn a lot by raising them about what is severe and not.  You know when the doctor needs to be called or visited.
-1	When I was twelve years old, a drunk driver hit the car my mother was driving while I was in the backseat. I have very few memories of the accident, but I do faintly recall a serious but calming face as I was gently lifted out of the car. The paramedic held my hand as we traveled to the hospital. I was in the hospital for several weeks and that same paramedic came to visit me almost every day. During my stay, I also got to know the various doctors and nurses in the hospital on a persol level. I remember feeling anxiety about my condition, but not sadness or even fear. It seemed to me that those around me, particularly my family, were more fearful of what might happen to me than I was. I dont believe it was innocence or ignorance, but rather a trust in the abilities of my doctors
1	I can't say there has been an experience in my life that would demonstrate medical knowledge. 
1	when i found a lump in my right chest  just below my nipple. I knew that breast cancer is rare for males, but not impossible. So i went to the DR. to find out what he thought. He fealt it was nothing major, but had tests done just to make sure, which i figured was likely when i went in.
-1	i was diagnosed with high colestoral, I was given Lipitor and took the drug as proscribed.  On the next vist to the doctor my colestoral was within acceptable limits
1	A co-worker cut his leg at work one night and was bleeding like a stuck pig.  I got a flatbed cart and told the boss.  I ran with the cart to my co-worker, had him lie on the cart holding a towel to his leg to apply pressure, and got a cardboard box for him to elevate his leg.  By the time the boss got there, he was ready to transport to medical.
-1	I was able to detemine if some one has a cold has opposed to an allergy, by the type of symptoms and the pollen count at the time.
1	I was discovered to have high blood pressure a few years ago.  I started taking medication and my BP was lower but I felt terrible.  No energy at all.  So I went back to the doctor and described my symptoms so he put me on a different pill and now I'm doing fine.  I guess that demonstrates my understanding of making sure I get the right medication for me.
1	My college did a free health screening that I participated in, and while I was being explained my results I was able to correct the medical student on several items.
1	My father is a doctor and my mother is a nurse. I'm not the best with math however. 
1	There was a time that I fell and hurt my wrist. I couldn't twist my wrist or bend it without pain and I knew that it was more than just a sprain. I figured it was broken and so I went to the hospital to have an x-ray.
1	A friend of mine actually recently had a mammogram that came out positive. I told her there was a good chance that it was a false positive and might just be a cyst or something. It did in fact turn out to be a false positive.
1	I got bit by a tick and contracted Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever so I went and looked it up and learned as much as I could about it and even offered information to my own doctor.
-1	Probably when I had to go for lab work and had to find out about my thyroid. I knew I had a high TSH level, but my Free T3 and my Free t4 was insanely low too. So I had to tell my doctor about those and she was shocked and said I was right. So now we not only look at my TSH , we also look at my Free T3 Free t4 too. Because you can have a normal TSH but have low Free T3 and Free t4 in hypothyroidism. I feel my best when my levels are optimal, not just normal.
1	When reading the paperwork on a new medication, I discovered that it was Not advised in someone with my other conditions. Called and told the doctor.
1	A FEW MONTHS AGO MY DAUGHTER HAD A SORE THROAT, FEVER, AND HAD TROUBLE SWALLOWING. BECAUSE THERE HAD BEEN A FEW INSTANCES OF STREP THROAT IN HER SCHOOL, I HAD REASON TO BELIEVE THAT SHE DID TOO. I KEPT HER OUT OF SCHOOL, MADE HER REST AND DRINK A LOT, AND I TOOK HER TO THE DOCTOR. MY GUESS WAS CONFIRMED, AND AN ANTIBIOTIC WAS PRESCRIBED.. 
1	I was diagnosed with a chronic disease a few years ago. I searched a lot of medical information and knowledge online, and consulted with many peoples about this disease. Now, i am taking some medicines to control this disease. I could adjust my medicines based on the self-testing results now. 
-1	Mostly contra indications of my husband's many meds, how to maintain a dyalysis patient, deal with doctors and ask questions that got my husband the right treatment. Also stopped an amputation of Grandmother's leg by indicating the need for a Doppler as she had phlebitis. Only her toe was then amputated.
1	I started being seen by Dr.'s at a very young age, around 5-6, due to gastrointestil issues. Later, as a teen, I was diagnosed with mental health issues such as bipolar, PTSD, and anxiety. Now, as an adult, I believe I am suffering the consequences due to my past issues and, while still dealing with anxiety and also having other issues come up. I have had a broad range of medical experiences.
1	I once had an abscessed tooth which caused major swelling in my gums. I remembered that peroxide worked as a mild antiseptic agent and salt water tends to reduce inflammation. With the combition of both of these things, I was able to reduce the swelling.
1	My husband told me he was peeing blood and that it hurt to pee. He tends to freak out about these things. I told him it was just a UTI. I told him I could make an appointment for him in the morning, but he dove to the ER instead. They said it was an UTi and gave him antibiotics. Im SO glad he listened to me :( spent $300 at the ER instead of waiting for the morning to see his regualr physician and co pay of $30.
1	I have a genetic predisposition to kidney stones. The first time they occurred, I ended up in the emergency room because I was in great pain and didn't know what was causing it. I learned as much as I could from the doctor and online information so that I could prevent that situation from happening again. Since then, I have only experienced one reoccurrence and I was able to alleviate and reverse it by taking the proper steps as soon as I recognized the symptoms beginning. It kept me out of the hospital and hopefully free of any future issues. 
1	One of my daughters was born with heart defects (ASD, PDA, Coarc) - I got a crash course in medical issues during her 2 heart surgeries.
1	I had never had an abnormal mammogram until I moved to a new area of the country, and my old mammograms were lost due to flooding. For the next several years I was told I needed further screening after every single annual mammogram. None of this further screening revealed any signs of cancer. I discussed the situation with my doctor and asked to be sent to a different provider for my next mammogram. I have not had an abnormal mammogram since.
1	The 2nd time I got cancer I pretty much knew what I would have to go through. I knew it was not going to be fun and I knew I would have tons of tests .It was not a good time in my life.
1	It was just a few days ago, I got a sore throat. I knew I gargle warm water with salt it would go away. Then few days later, no more sore throat.
1	my mom had a bulge on her aorta. The doctor wanted to watch it and use medication, but when I searched info online we found out it was borderline for surgery, so my mom asked for surgery instead.
1	I got a job at 22 at University of Michigan Medical Transcription department that paid well because I passed the medical terminology test (my mom is a retired nurse and my dad is a retired hospital administrator).
1	I have worked during the summer at a Day Camp for elementary aged students for a number of years.  One day a camper bumped their mouth on the edge of the pool jumping in and I needed to give them first aid.  
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues was when I was able to recognize the signs of congestive failure in a friend (shortness of breath, fluid, tiredness)
1	My friend was just diagnosed with Diabetes. His blood sugar was 450. He thought he should work out to get his numbers down but I told him No. That all the sugar in his blood would be sent through his heart many times and at high speeds. He should just relax take his meds and drink water.
-1	when I was diagnosed with type diabetes and had to read all of the content regarding my medications and new lifestyle changes required.
1	My dad has type-2 diabetes. Having grown up watching him interact with this disease, I have learned much about it and the ways that he must use to mage it. I have also learned how this disease might affect me and have adopted practices to prevent it in my own life.
1	I am not very good at know health problems or medical issues.  Like with my health I ask a lot of questions and do a lot of research.  When I was diagnosed with pre type 2 diabetes I had to do a lot of research.  I needed to learn what I could and could not do.  I do not want full blown diabetes.
1	My father and older brother each had corory bypass by the age of 70.  I have regularly chelated using an IV of either EDTA or Di-sodium calcium to remove plaque from my circulatory system.  According to a Doppler measurement, I have almost zero blockage.  I also take enough testosterone to keep my levels at the high of normal for a 20 year old male.  Therefore, I am able to grow muscle, I do lift heavy and have muscles, agility, sex drive, low body fat and high energy.
1	Was diagnosed with MRSA infection that required medical attention with antibiotics IV according to the infection disease doctor.   Disagreed with her diagnosis and saw another who recultured and found no MRSA in sample. Learned that a second opinion is always warranted. I never trust the first doctor who tells me something is wrong. I always get a second opinion regarding my own persol health. 
-1	This would had to be when i did a presentation in front of a class about smoking and the harmful effects it cause to ones health and body.
-1	I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues when I was taking my medical assistance classes and I passed some of my classes. I also am able to decode medical terms for people in my family and am able to help them better understand their conditions as some medical terms sound more intimidating then they actually are. 
1	I suffer from asthma.  I know what the doctors are looking for when they use a pulse ox.  I also know what oxygen levels are good and what is not so great.  I am also familiar with how they check for pneumonia.
-1	I have really sensitive skin and I have been told I had scabies and different sorts of issues.  However we found out by trying different doctors that it is a rare form of excema. It didn't feel like things borrowing it just itched. I wasn't going to take the first doctors prognosis and attempted to try others.
1	A long time ago when I had a bulging disc I was prescribed 3 meds.  I recognized the me of one of them being a high powered muscle relaxant.  I called my doctor for clarification, and he assured me that it was safe.
-1	My mom was taking chemo and needed to take an antibiotic for something. The next morning after starting the antibiotic her neck swelled up. I told her it was an allergic reaction and took her to the Dr. He argued with me that that was NOT a known side affect and it had to be something else. In looking through his medical book it was listed as a side affect in a small % of users. I was correct.
1	When my son was given antiobiotics and immediately had a rash appear. I knew that I should give him bedryl then call the nurse line for further instructions. I also knew it was important to watch his airway.
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of my medical issues when I had to seek help for a parent who was suffering from dehydration and passing out. 
1	I was diagnosed with high blood pressure and lowered it by taking fish oil.  It worked well for me.
-1	I havent had any major conflicts with health.
1	I do not know how to answer this as I feel all my experiences lead me to this knowledge of health or medical issues as I try to study and learn as much as possible. This question is either unclear or I just am not understanding it. I can only reiterate: no one experience demonstrated my knowledge. I try to make myself knowledgeable whenever I have a medical issues by studying and inquiring.
-1	It was five years ago when I got a right leg fracture because I was having MVA during my vacation.The injury is not that serious but it causes a small fracture on my right leg ankle.I was having an encounter with ornithologist and I'm glad that he was able to help my condition and healed in less than two months.During those times, I often ask him every single procedure he did to me because I want to know what is the indication of every procedure and medicines so he taught me so.
-1	my sisters appendix ruptured and the doctors cut her bowel while trying to clean her out. she had to have a colostomy bag for 2 months and we had to learn how to care for it/change it. 
1	I am a caregiver for elderly patients. I once recognized a stroke symptom in a patient. 
1	The first experience that comes to mind is helping my daughter with a diet and exercise program for school sports. She was very interested in being as healthy and physically fit as she could and I was able to help her quite a bit due to my previous experiences.
1	There was this one time that I had sunburn on my face.  Then my face had some swelling becuase of the sunburn.  I put a cold ice pack on my face and it made my face feel better.  This is how I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	My brother was suffering from a headache. I told him to drink water as it was most likely the cause. He drank water and the pain had gone.
1	I have had fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome and arthritis for over 25 years.  In addition, I was diagnosed with cancer 10 years ago which required surgery and follow-up chemotherapy.  I still have many checkups and medical tests to monitor all of my conditions on a regular basis due to the after effects of previous treatments.  It is very important to me to keep up with my understanding of medical issues.
1	My father was hospitalized.  My mother was having trouble understanding a pain treatment so I spoke with his doctor and rephrased the information in a way that she could understand.
1	A while back, I started having difficulty uriting and I had a swollen and tender lymph node in my groin. I thought it was likely that I had a UTI. I visited a walk-in clinic, was prescribed antibiotics, and the symptoms cleared within the week.
-1	I worked for a pharmaceutical inventory company, I learned to mes of both trade and generic  drugs and what their uses were. 
1	I work in medical app development so most days invlove this knowldege.
1	I took nutrition in college and so I felt that I understood how to be healthy, and I got a bit obsessed with things like phytates in oats. I would try to organize my diet to maximize nutrient absorption.
1	When my diabetic father woke up with mental confusion one night I was correct that he had low blood sugar and needed to eat.
1	I had been experiencing anxiety and after attempting to cope with it on my own I filly made that doctor appointment.  I explained my concern with the doctor and she prescribed a low dose of a medication that I had already done some research on.
1	I had a runner friend who was describing to me how they felt like that were falling apart. They week before they had pulled a leg muscle and this week they were experiencing hip problems.  I was thought I knew the causes so I asked them if they were running everyday and if they continued running after pulling the muscle. When they answered yes on both counts I explained that they needed to add rest days to their routine and that the hip pain was the result of the body making unconscious corrections in running style due to the pulled muscle. I recommended they take a week off to heal up and some NSAIDs to keep swelling down. The recommendations were effective.
1	I had an experience with a situation where my husband was diagnosed with a brain aneurysm and was medically induced/placed in a coma.There was no action on the part of the team at this hospital to help correct the problem. I contacted a neurosurgeon in another city because I knew there was a 48-72 hr window for any help to be successful. He was airlifted to the facility and recieved a coilb procedure to seal of the bleeding. He survived.
1	I really don't know how to answer this question. I really can't say I've had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues. If I have a problem, I will either make an appointment with a doctor, or I will research online and probably attempt to treat, avoid or ignore whatever issue I am facing depending on its severity.
1	
1	I woorked in a hospital as a night shift computer operator. Part of my function was to print the bills. What an eye opener as to the horrible cost of medical care in the US. As recently as today I am reminded of the cost of healthcare in the US with ads about bankruptcy due to medical bills and how people have to hock eveyrthing to pay off their medical bills. What a mess!
1	I went to the dermatologist and found out I was correct about a rash that had appeared on my forehead. I had been putting on a mix of over the counter creams that she was going to recommend, but I found them to be lacking so she gave me a prescription for something stronger to help.
1	I have high blood pressure.  Therefore I am aware of the significance of systolic, diastolic readings.  I also pay attention to my pulse rate. As to experience, I can tell if I miss my meds due to increase in my pulse, which I can feel.
-1	I dont know if I would call it experience. Its more like just dealing with it by looking at all the options that are available and how effective they are and making a choice and hope that you can afford it.
-1	I had a cyst on my butt that I tried to treat at home until the pain became so unbearable that I had to seek medical help. The doctor sliced open the swollen area and odorous pulse came out of it. After spending a couple of days in the hospital for observation, the doctor asked my why I waited so long to come to a doctor and that what I had could have developed into something much worse.
-1	one year i had a false positive getting my pap done and it scared the crap out of me had to get tests done again and then every 6months after.
-1	My friend had a problem that when he woke up in the morning he felt tired and fell a sleep at work. I asked him if he  snored and had high blood pressure and he said yes. I mentioned that he should be tested for sleep apnea which he was and now uses a cpap, just like me. 
-1	when i was working many years ago a  co worker got hurt he cute himself so i put some achohal on his cut and then put a bandage on it.
1	I have had struggles with bronchitis before and after the first diagnosis I know exactly when I am going to get a flare up based on how I feel. I know when to look for my chest to rattle, and when to address instead of panicking early on.
1	Virtually anytime I ever had to see a specialist or went to a new medical facility, I needed to always fill out a series of forms. I have never been in a situation where I did not understand the information I need to fill in. 
1	I was trying to eat a very healthy diet and started to have weird symptoms. I researched the symptoms and discovered that they correlated with insufficient calorie intake. I evaluated my diet and realized that I wasn't eating enough, especially enough fats, realized that I met the criteria for a diagnosis of EDNOS that was in the most current DSM at the time, and changed my diet to better reflect my caloric needs. 
1	I gave birth to a child. Before and after that there was not much else regarding medical issues, but that taught me a lot.
1	Knowing what the side effects are of a medicine and being able to identify those sided effects occurring. When they occurred I presented my findings to my doctor and switched to a different med.
1	Some time ago, I learned that someone I know was having an episode of high anxiety. I knew that anxiety is linked to breathing patterns. I applied my knowledge of controlled breathing to help this person recover from the episode.
1	During the Ebola crisis I had a lot of coworkers freaking out over getting Ebola. I had to tell them constantly that there was hardly any chance that they or anybody they knew would get it. Very hard to contract and even if it was in america the people would be quarantined. At the end of the whole thing nobody died.
-1	I am 41 with three kids. I have a mother who gets sick, my grand parents who have been in an out, and those who i interact with on facebook., My knowledge of medical is really based on what i have had explained to me within those visits. I use to enjoy watching medical shows like ER, because I feel like I was able to learn something. 
1	When my dog was sick I figure out that we was either allergic or was having a reaction to certain kinds of food. He had symptoms similar to allergies. 
1	I can read instructions for a medicine and use it as directed. I can correctly measure temperature and blood pressure. I can count calories. I can calculate percepts. 
-1	I went to a doctor because i had a lump at my side. it was the size of a marble and it was black in color compare to my lighter carmel complexion. it was painful to touch and i could not lay down on that side of my body.  The doctor told me it was just fat tissue when she felt it and said she could do minor surgery and remove it by cutting it out. I told her i'll decide if to do surgery to remove it. I did my own research online based on signs and symptoms and the swelling turned out to be a acne cyst. I look up treatment for cyst and treat the problem myself. the pain disappeared and the swelling went down flat.
-1	when i get a cold i know that things to do to get myself well. i know the foods to eat. i know to rest and what medicines to buy.
1	It seems that regularly I am able to self-diagnose many problems and make necessary changes that get me on the correct path before I even see my doctor to get his opinion. I have adapted my diet and lifestyle to combat symptoms in advance only to have my doctor commend me on being proactive with my condition.
1	About two years ago I awoke one morning with a large bump on my back.  It was very painful and pus was oozing out of it.  I went to the minute clinic because that was fast to get into.  The lady just said it was probably a bug bite and nothing serious.  I hadn't ever had a reaction like this to a bug before and knew that where the bump was, on my back near my spine, that I needed to get another opinion.  I got into my normal physician about five hours later.  he said it was good that I came in because it was severely infected and the infection area was getting very close to my spine and getting into my blood stream.  If I hadn't known something was worse than was diagnosed at the minute clinic I could have easily ended up in the hospital.
1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy. My daughter-in-law is a neurologist specializing in epilepsy. She has been my back-up with MRI's, meds, dosage and general care I have learned more about my problem through my Dr's and here to keep current on my problem..
1	I began experiencing severe coldness in my fingers of my left hand, to the point where the digits turned blue and dark purple (even when I was indoors at 65 degrees). This progressed to affect my nose, left foot toes, and sometimes my nipples, with severe episodes causing my fingerils to develop waves and my fingers to develop painful lesions that scarred. I researched and figured out that I have Rayud's syndrome and that constriction in my blood vessels was likely due to stress, cold temperatures, etc. Through diet and exercise, I have reduced the number of episodes that I have. 
-1	I kept having very severe reactions after eating certain types of food or consuming certain drinks. It was very painful, like being punched in the stomach from the inside. I suspected it had to do with my being sensitive to the acid content of what I had and it could be acid reflux. I went to my doctor and sure enough, my suspicions were correct. 
1	I have borderline high cholesterol.  Although the doctor did not go into detail with me about my cholesterol levels, I understand the relationship between HDL and LDL and triglycerides to know that my high cholesterol reading is not necessarily alarming.  I also understand what I need to do to improve my cholesterol reading and independently (without medication) took some measures that lowered my cholesterol level by 11 points over a year.
1	Being able to basically consult my direct family and tell them when to get what medication and when to see a doctor demonstrates my knowledge of health and medical issues, Sometimes I feel very informed even though it may be basic knowledge.
1	I was doing some cleaning and lifting heavy objects when I felt something in my stomach and groin area, I thought maybe I pulled a muscle, but then a bit later I noticed a bulge in my groin. I did some research online and found out that it was most likely an inguil hernia. I went to my doctor and he confirmed my suspicions. 
-1	I am the only one in my household who have knowledge of health issue i have to take care my 11 years daughter, father and mother in law who have parkinson's, blood pressure, diabeties and prostate. alwyas i ahve to go doctors for them to consult. their medication etc.
-1	I have asthma and allergies which causes me alot of medical issues. I have done research on taking care of these issues.
1	My then-12-year-old daughter ate a brownie and broke out in hives & started wheezing. I gave her some Benedryl, and took her to the emergancy room immediately.  Turns out, my daughter had developed an allergy to tree-nuts. My husband is deathly allergic to eggs, so I had an idea of what a food-allergy reaction looked like & how serious it COULD be. I'm also aware that allergies can develop or fade away at any age, or stay the same for life.
1	i honestly dont know what to put here, i dont feel ive ever shown something like this in a significant way
1	My child had been ill with a fever, random usea and fatigue. After the fever and usea had passed, he was still extremely fatigued and had swollen glands. Even though I had never known anyone to experience it, I suspected mono since this was unusual for him to be so tired. He had bloodwork done and he was in fact infected with mono.
1	Taking a drug for ADHD required me to understand the health risks associated with an amphetamine.  I had to understand percentage and probability risks for things like heart attack due to chest pains and irregularities.
-1	Changes in the body which are not pleasant
1	My wife was rushed to the hospital in extreme pain. She was worried it was something serious. The area that was in pain and her symptoms lead me to believe she had a hernia or cyst that was causing the pain. After she was admitted it turned out it was a cyst that cause the pain. It was nothing serious as I kept telling her. 
1	I have been able to diagnose and override a doctor when my brother was on the clinic, and It turned out that I was right. 
1	I don't have any particular knowledge of health or medical issues. The only incident that comes to minds is that the last time I had an infection requiring oral antibiotics, I was very aware of the necessity of following through on taking the entire prescription even though my symptoms were greatly diminished.
1	No experience with this type of medical issues
1	I'm not sure I can think of one. My cat was diabetic  so I had to give him insulin and when he went into kidney failure I gave him fluids so I understand the technical process but I don't feel I have a proper understanding of the actual disease.
1	I sometimes discuss my friend's medical condition with them. I will pass along information I have confirmed with my doctor.
1	
1	I felt that I was going to faint after I had spent a long time standing up in a particularly hot office. I had had similar experiences  before, and had researched the subject of the vasovagal response and the best action to take in that situation. I quickly got to the ground, elevated my legs, and tensed my leg muscles as I had researched.  As a result, I didn't faint and was able to stand up again and resume work shortly afterwards.
-1	The most important experience was when I took my state board exams for my PTA license. I had to be well versed in medical terminology as well as diseases and the causes and treatment for each one. Most important was knowing what muscle controls what part of the body. 
-1	When I had my first heart attack I was in really bad shape. When I got out I was given all of these different types of exercises to follow every day in order to keep me in tact with my health.  It was difficult to keep up with. I had to get family to help me out with my schedule.  I learned so much during this trial about things I didnt even know about my own body and health. 
1	The second time that I got pregnt I felt as though I had a great knowledge of the process. This is the only medical issue that I am very familiar with. Now that I have friends who are pregnt I get to show my knowledge. 
-1	i   got knowledge through friends  and relations health problems
-1	I have had multiple friends and loved ones pass away from cancer, so therefor have looked into the topic of cancer in itself and the single fact that cancer is a business in this country.
1	When I was diagnosed with pcos. I am able to explain to people the effects of having it and what exactly it is. A lot of people have never even heard of it.
1	I have not had many experiences in my life to help my knowledge of health or medical issues. I am studying to become a nurse, so I have taking a couple of Atomy and Physiology courses that have helped a bit. My grandmother is also a nurse, and I am sure just talking to her has had a little bit of an effect on my understanding.
1	Most of my knowledge of health issues would have to be because of my husband who has several of the health issues that you listed in your examples/questions above. He has diabetes, high cholesterol, has had stints put in twice and was diagnosed with prostate cancer, high blood pressure and others. He doesn't fit the norm for most of these, not overweight, gets plenty of exercise and is active, etc. So I have learned quite a bit through his treatments and issues. 
1	A couple of years ago, I had some kind of a bump on my upper leg. It kind of freaked me out, not knowing what it was and how it developed. But instead of worrying too much about it and running to the doctor I just watched it to see if it began to hurt or get bigger. I didn't want to scare myself or my family too much about it so I just waited. I also didn't look anything up online, knowing that that would only make me much more anxious and scared. Eventually, it went away, as I believe it was just from stress or something.
-1	Once I had a tiny growth on my thyroid. One doctor (who was slash for cash happy) wanted to rip it out. In light of the fact that I'm a singer, I instead elected to monitor it once a year. There has been no change in the 6 years I have been monitoring it. 
1	When I had to take a family member to the hospital. The person fell from his roof I brought them there. I had to fill out all the paperwork since their was no one else in the state to do so. 
1	When my father was still around, he tripped over a shovel in the backyard. he couldn't get up, so he called me with his cell phone. I only lived about 10 minutes away so i drove over and entered through the backyard. his ankle was swollen pretty badly. So I helped him up and brought him inside. I knew we probably had to take him to the hospital to get it checked out, but him being a stubborn old man, he refused. I had him sit in a chair and brought another chair over so he could elevate his leg. I put a pillow under his foot and taped an ice pack around his ankle. We them argued for about 15 minutes about going to the doctor and I eventually convinced him to talk to an advise nurse. The advice nurse told him to elevate his leg and keep it iced. If it didn't improve within a half hour, to come in to be checked. 3 hours pass and nothing improved, so I eventually got him to agree to go to the hospital.
-1	I guess when I was talking to my husband about diabetes. My father has it, so I was able to tell him about my dad's condition with an above basic level of understanding.
1	I have some friends in the medical field and have helped my family with their persol health.  This has allowed me to become more familiar with different types of health matters and working with various areas of health care system.
-1	questioning my physician regularly
1	I have a masters degree in occupatiol therapy and work in a hospital setting.
1	A time in my life when I had to demonstrate my knowledge of a medical issue was a time when I had to help care for my sick relative, I had to learn about their condition and the medication they took.  I had to take them to the hospital one evening and explain to the doctors their condition and medication.
-1	In my studies of my own ailments such as blood pressure
1	I came down with flu-like symptoms but experienced headaches and stiffness in my neck that are symptoms of a more serious ailment: meningitis. I quickly sought the assistance of a health practitioner that commended me for recognizing the dangers and not trying to remedy the situation myself.
1	I have persolly been through two surgeries, one was an adenoidectomy and the second was to remove my gall bladder. My sister is also a nurse and we have discussed different medical issues. I also remember my experiences with my grandmother and her fight against cancer and diabetes.
1	Having children made me a pseudo expert in diagnosing health issues and adding to my health knowledge. Many times, my children would exhibit symptoms and if they appear benign enough I would go online to check symtoms to self diagnose. While doing that, I've read up and gained a lto of knowledge on many different illnesses and its treatments. 
1	My fiance had 3 strokes in 3 weeks in March of 2017. Fortutely, I was aware of the warning signs, and got her help before things got too out of hand. I've also helped her with her other medical issues, so I know what meds to go for when she has a problem.
-1	i think just going to the doctor all these years and listineing to her has really educated me in so many things but i google a lot of symptons too and learn a lot fron the internet web md
1	This is kind of a hard question to answer. I have never had any serious medical issues persolly. I have extensive knowledge of many issues my father had prior to his death. He was a diabetic, along with the majority of his siblings and mother. I know that there could be a high probability that I could acquire diabetes myself if I don't take care of my body by watching what I eat and exercising  regularly.
1	I had blood work done and my glucose level was 130. My doctor was worried that this was elevated. I explained I had just eaten shortly before my blood work. I asked if there was a reading on my A1C. My A1C was checked and not a cause for concern. I had my glucose re-tested later that week and it was below 100.
-1	I would get tested with how these things are done and how people were doing and making sure that these things can work
1	I like helping people figure out the dosage recommended of a specific medicine and also look up symptoms to try and diagnose an ailment. 
1	A few years ago I decided to severely reduce my sugar intake due to the harm caused my eating too much. I avoid little added sugar as possible and reduced my carbohydates.
1	I once cut my hand on glass pretty bad. I was able to clean it, stop the bleeding, and bandage it fairly quickly without going to the doctor.  
1	When my daughter was born she has SVT, which essentially was a hole in her heart that led to an elevated blood pressure.  She had to spend the first three days in the NICU, take medicine once a day for a year, and see the cardiologist once a week.  
-1	I tore a muscle in my back off the bone working out. I was able to figure all this out by doing my own research and saved myself a lot of money by doing so. 
-1	I was diagnosed with breast cancer and I did a lot of research about it by finding every medical book on the subject and reading it and then going to see the surgeon to discuss my options. 
1	I don't think there are any great stories in my life that would tell about that kind of thing, so I don't know if this is any good...  I just try to follow the low-carb diet my doctor said I should follow every day and take my medications as directed.
1	I noticed my friend was smiling weird.  Her smile was crooked.  I knew this was a sign of a stroke and got my friend to the hospital.  They were able to give her medication to prevent a major stroke.
-1	I suppose helping a friend who's wife was pregnt as I had gone through the same thing a year prior.
-1	I persolly have been very lucky as far as my health goes. I have pretty good health for my age. My sister had cancer, I learned a lot while being with her at the hospital. My son was in a coma for thirteen days, I gained some knowledge while he was in the hospital. I do not think I have a great deal of medical knowledge. I did sell health and life insurance for a few years so I know some of the terminologies but not that much on what each condition details.
-1	The time that I had IVF's.  I learned a lot about difficulty of having a baby.
1	I had a friend who was acting quite unusual.  Her behavior was odd, yet quite familiar.  As a person who is treated for depression, I have read up a great deal about the condition, where I even volunteer to counsel other who also experience depression. I knew the signs right away, and talked to her.  Luckily, I referred her to a licensed mental health specialist to get the care and propoer diagnosis that she needs.
-1	The first time I went to a doctor's visit alone. I had been enough times that I did not need any help asking questions or filling forms. 
1	It is difficult to say but I have a certification in CPR, I exercise regularly, received all my vaccitions because I believe in them.
1	One day my mother told me she was having severe stomach pain.  The pain happened when her stomach was more empty.  Drinking milk relieved the pain.  I had heard of this and told her to go to the doctor and tell them she probably has an ulcer and needed some antibiotics.  She did that and came home with the antibiotics.  Her stomach pain went away for several years before flaring up again.  
1	For several years, I helped my parents with chronic health conditions including diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. I learned a lot about those conditions and was constantly applying what I learned to daily situations including maging high and low blood sugar, confusion, and activating community resources for their situation.
-1	I started having bad headaches then I started having seizures. I had never had seizures before. about six months past and I had a stroke.   
1	I didn't have insurance and I had an abscess in my mouth where a tooth had decayed.  I ended up treating it with fish antibiotics.  This did the trick as I felt better in 2 days (but continued to take the antibiotics for a week).  A few weeks later I got the rest of the tooth removed at a dental school on the cheap.  But yeah I knew what to do in that instant without going to the emergency room and getting a huge bill and prescription I couldn't afford.
-1	I knew my symptoms were aligned with a certain diagnosis. I explained it to my doctor and he realized that I was correct based on my symptoms. 
-1	"The first time my husband and I were expecting a baby, we found out that we had lost her at 13 weeks.  I was scheduled to have a D & C at the end of the week on Friday, but began to bleed on Wednesday.  The doctor had me come into the hospital to have a D & C on Wednesday evening.  On Friday, the doctor had me come back to the office for a check up.  I asked if I had been given RhoGam (since I have A+ blood) and was told I was not.   The day I was seen was right before the office was going to close for the Easter weekend.  Had I not asked about the RhoGam and had they not rushed to filly give it to me, the 72 hour would have been missed due to the Easter break.  This doctor knew my blood type but ""forgot"" to give me RhoGam until I asked for it!"
1	I hurt my wrist and had to decide whether or not to make an appointment with my doctor or go to the emergency room at a hospital. I called my doctor and described my symptoms. They asked me about the location, appearance, and other details, and I chose to make an appointment rather than go to a hospital.
1	I used to have to help my grandmother often with her diabetes issues so I am familiar with what most people typically have to do. One day while I was at work, an older coworker of mine started to feel faint because of low blood sugar. I was able to get her something to eat and helped her restore her blood sugar levels back to normal.
1	This one here has; it's likely shown how inept I am at math.
1	My son had a sore throat recently.  He had the sniffles due to allergies and I thought that was the issue at first, but when I took a flashlight and looked at his throat, it was very raw.  Also, he was running a low grade fever.  I knew it must be strep.  Sure enough, the doctor confirmed it.  
1	My mother had an inner ear infection that led to an absess in her brain. She was hospitalized with quite a few surgeries, and spend a couple of months in rehabilitation. There were several doctors explaining several things over the course of her treatment and recovery. 
1	I once had a severe earache. I also had a sinus infection. I deduced that I had an ear infection. The doctor confirmed I had an ear infection.
1	One experience I had that showed my knowledge of health issues was dealing with the hospital when I had a kidney stone. It took 8 visits to get them to listen to me, and search what should have been the first step. I knew they were wrong, and being neglectful, so I pressed them further, and made them do their jobs.
1	I actually had a bacterial infection in my lungs and had went to a doctor who claimed it was a cold. I tried telling him I had no symptoms of a cold and he would not budge and told me to get some Robitussin or something similar. I ended up going to ER where I was diagnosed with a bacterial infection and receive the proper anti bacterial  medicine and within  two days the cough started to subside. Most Dr's just don't bother to spend the time anymore to ask and simply generalize what they think it is based on whatever may be widespread at the time as opposed to your symptoms.
-1	I will say it was when grandmother was diagnosed with brain cancer. Her brain swelled up and there was a medication that could be given her to lower the inflammation on the brain but she had diabetes and this will increase the glucose level. She was 75 years old and I expl to the doctor that based on what I read online the chances of her going into a diabetic coma were almost none. Based on what I read there is a little chance of a person with a high glucose level who is over the age of 70 going into a diabetic coma almost non existing and also she was going to die anyways, the tumor was not operable and it did not respond to radiation.
1	I was quite athletic when I was growing up. Did a lot of weight training and exercise physiology. When I injured myself and had to go to physical therapy. Everything that the therapist was talking about made perfect sense to me, and the verbiage and actual motions used during the exercises were all ready within my muscle memory.
1	I just listen to what my doctor tells me.  If I don't understand, i just ask questions.  I saw my doctor, last week for a check up.  this applies then.  I have no real knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	My friend had recently had recently had a miscarriage and was having problems afterwards that was effecting her work and home life. I suggested that she might have reactive depression which is something that can happen after a miscarriage. She went to see a doctor and he confirmed I was correct. He put her on some medication and she saw a therapist which real he helped her get back to her usual self.
-1	Well, my parents is not very healthy person.  When their was sick, I always took them to see the doctor.  That doctor later become my neighbor and friend.  So he kind of explain and teach me about the medical issues. 
1	I demonstrate my medical knowledge from what I learn from my doctor to other people when the topics come up, for instance with my other friend's children are sick or hurt.
-1	when I was having an extremely hard time breathing I knew something was wrong, I went to the hospital and discovered that I had two PE's in my right lung. I knew it was more than my asthma and I knew it was in my right lung.
-1	"My son while still in highschool got a concussion during practice and I was called to come and get him. I took him to the emergency room. The doctor gave the typical instructions on what not to let him do. I asked him if getting some of the amino acids that act as neurotransmitters to the brain help speed up his recovery. He looked at me as if I had three heads and answered I guess in disbelief that I actually knew something. His response was"" yes""."
1	Recently I've seen that I have more health problems if I sleep less, and my health is better if I sleep more.  So I've been trying to sleep more because sometimes if I sleep less my ear starts hurting.
1	"I've been dealing with back pain for a while (over a few years) so throughout my pain 'journey' i have researched anything from sciatica, plantar fasciitis (which caused this whole thing from the beginning) as well as knowing different terminology for my symptoms as well as the body parts...like explaining to my (new) chiropractor and/or physical therapist which part of my body that are having problems and what kind of exercises i've done. I actually have gone to my doctor at one point (for a follow up visit) and he started our conversation with ""So, what did your online research find?"" and after I explained what I've found he confirmed yes/no on what I read and it was quite a good and efficient meeting."
1	I had a pain in my neck that was getting worse and I figured it was because I was using my tablet and my head was at a angle that was causing me problems. I started setting my tablet at different angle and over the course of a couple of weeks my neck pain faded and then completely went. If I would have still had the pain after a couple of weeks I would have went to the doctor, but since that time I have never had any problems with it again.
1	A close friend developed high blood pressure and prediabetes. Doctors put him on medication that he didn't want to take, and they gave him a (truly) lousy diet and exercise program that would've ensured he stayed on the meds forever. I cleaned up his diet, got him on a sensible training program, and now he doesn't need to take any medication.
1	My exposure to medical topics began when I was very young. I grew up on a dairy farm and when I was about 10 I started helping the vet when they came to do herd checks, etc. I have worked in hospitals as a med tech in the ED and lab so I am very comfortable around it when I am not the patient. In my late 20s I was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and that was when things began to go downhill health-wise. I had to learn a lot about autoimmune diseases and honestly believe if I hadn't fired my docs at the end of 1999, I would be dead now.
1	I play basketball a lot. I was also interested in sports medicine. I have twisted my ankle numerous times over the years. My knowledge on how to treat sprains was an asset to me. 
1	i sometimes kinda diagnose my aliments using google,however i am not very good at it. when i was a teeger.my girl friend at that time was babysitting a 7 year old boy,who fell off a swing and broke his arm.she called me first since i was only a few houses away,and asked me what to do.i went over there and his arm had a u shaped fracture.i told her to call an ambulance.thats it,thats all i got.
1	I learned knowledge of health or medical issues as I was raising my children.  Also my parents had health problems early on because they smoked, ate food that was high in cholesterol so I've learned what not to eat and to exercise to stay as healthy as I can.
-1	I take my kids temperature and if its high i give them medicine.
1	My friend told me about a disorder they had called celiac disease and I already knew quite a lot about the disorder. 
-1	a coworker complained of have the worst sore throat he had ever had i told him he need to get that checked out because if strep  is left unchecked it can damage the heart  he went to the doctor and he had strep
1	When my mother was diagnosed as diabetic, we were told to limit her carb intake. I spent time reading several guides given to me by her doctor and attending two classes given by a registered dietitian. Through diet and medication, we were able to lower her fasting glucose levels significantly.
1	My mom had ALS.  We cared for her at home for 10 years with nursing help during the day.  She was non ambulatory. She was on a ventilator and feeding tube for the majority of that time. I knew how to administer her medication and feed her, change her catheter, change out vent tubing, suction her throat.  She needed total care.  I could care for her myself when we did not have a nurse.  
1	My niece called me and asked about symptoms she was having. I had a good idea of what could be wrong. I told her it was my best guess and that she should see the doctor. It turned out my educated guess was correct.
1	I had leg swelling, and red blotches above my ankles, so I went to a clinic that open.  The doctor there told me that I had cellulitis, but I didn't think so because there was too much pain involved.  I decided to go the hospital ER and get a different opinion.  After the results of the tests, I was informed that I had three blood clots in my outer vein.  I was given antibiotics and a list of doctors to see for the recommended surgery.
-1	I get migraines so it's interesting to see what causes it 
1	Sometimes the math of medicine is a little bit confusing and you have to be very careful not to make any mistakes.
1	I was being evaluated for high risk pregncy due to a blood clot early on.  I had done a lot of research prior to visiting the doctor so that I would have knowledge to understand what the doctors were going to recommend in relation to how my pregncy would progress and how my birth would be.
1	I was able to lose weight a few years ago when I realized that I needed to. I lost about 30 pounds, which was my goal. I accomplished this weight loss by avoiding junk food, eating more fruits and vegetables, and walking every day. I still follow these healthy routines so I can stay fit and healthy.
1	I cant think of any one specific incident.  There have been a few times I have administered first aid like the heimlich maneuver or recognized someone needed to go to the hospital because of a fever or difficulty breathing, etc.
-1	I worked in the service as a nurse aid and learned a lot about the basics
1	I was trying to figure out my results from a blood test.  Much of the information was abbreviated or included terms I was not used to, so I would use the internet to look up the definitions to help determine the results.
-1	I suffer from high blood pressure and obesity I have to monitor everything.
1	I woke up with a cramp in my leg one morning. I took a spoon full of mustard and the cramp went away within 2 minutes and never returned.
1	I was diagnosed about 10 years ago with possible cervical cancer.  The doctor sent me in for a myriad of tests.  I filly had to have surgery to remove the cells that were cancerous.  I followed up ahead of time on all the possible outcomes and any side effects.  Surgery was the best outcome to remove the cells and not have it spread.
1	There hasn't really been just one significant experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health and medical issues. There's just small things that I do to alleviate or resolve medical issues that pop up. For example, I take apple cider vinegar for my indigestion because I know that I have low stomach acid. And I take frequent breaks and move around to prevent my sciatica nerve from acting up.
-1	I care for my mother moderately. She is independent and usually takes care of herself but doesn't have information on important health facts. One afternoon she described to me how she had had difficulties pouring her coffee, she explained how she had to hold one arm with the other to even lift minimally. I insist recognized the symptoms of stroke. We went to the ER where they did find she had a stroke.
1	I had two C-sections. Once when I was 23 and one when I was 27. After the first one I tried to look up a lot more information about C-sections and surgery in general, because I figured I would need another C-section with my second child. I was a lot more informed by the time I had my second C-section, which made the process a lot easier and more comforting for me. I knew what was about to happen, so I did not have to worry as much as I did with the first C-section.
1	My fiance was out of town visiting family and he started feeling sick. Each day that I talked to him he sounded worse. I filly convinced him to go to an Urgent Care and he was diagnosed with an Upper Respiratory Infection.
1	I found out I have Restless Legs Syndrome a few years ago. My doctor had some recommendations, but I did a bit of my own research and found out that low-normal levels of ferritin (stored iron) can exacerbate it. I was then able to follow up with the doctor and get a ferritin test, and confirmed that I should reduce my frequency of doting blood and take an iron supplement when I do. That helped reduce the intensity of my RLS symptoms.
1	I can comprehend health materials as I am very good in science and math. I always look at ways to reduce my risk.
-1	When I was younger I had a terrible problem with heavy menstrual flow, cramps and fibroids. I did my own research, and worked with a conventiol and altertive health care professiol to obtain the results I needed to get rid of the problem. Today I am fine and in great shape.
-1	I was not feeling well one day and could not figure out what was going on. So I went online and pulled up WebMD and searched for all the symptoms I was having and was able to rrow it down to 2 possible things. In doing this I was able to give my doctor a better account of what I was going through.
-1	i was shoot in the leg and i know to tie my leg up to stop the bleeding
1	The increasing pain, stiffness and swelling in my big toes and ankles was an indicator that I had a problem with arthritis, since it was persistent but fluctuated in intensity depending on the weather, not due to trauma or recent injury, and consistent with the development of arthritis in my aunt when she reached the age I'm at now.
-1	When I started breaking out in like a rash and skin kept growing I thought it was psoriasis based on what I had seen before and I turned out to be correct when I went to a dermatologist.
-1	I told my mother to get a flu vaccine as I knew it was helpful.
-1	I whought I had a sinus infection, went to the doctor, and that was confirmed 
-1	I am learning about health and medical issues every day. I have several medical problems that I see a doctor about monthly and I frequently have to go to specialists for this test or that.
1	My children will frequently get sick, and my two year old recently had a slight fever of 99.6, but I simply gave him some over the counter Tylenol, and made sure he stayed hydrated with water and Gatorade. My six year old had the same conditions of fever, vomiting, and diarrhea. I knew it was probably a virus, and did not feel it was necessary to take him to the doctor for it.
1	Once I remember seeing a medical category on Jeoparody!, the game show. I think I got almost every answer.
1	My best friend found some thickening bellow her collarbone. I told her to immediately go to the doctor because I knew there's a big possibility that it's a breast cancer. It turned out to be nothing scary but the doctor told her that I gave her a good advice.
1	After an off-road motorcycle mishap I knew that my leg was seriously damaged.  My leg had been wrenched around under the heavy bike, and I had actually heard a sp.  Once we were able to get the motorcycle off my leg it was obvious to me that there was a serious fracture, perhaps a compound fracture, as any movement would result in a feeling of bone grating together.  I decided that the best thing to do was to keep my tall, heavy boot on to stabilize the lower leg.  I was uble to walk due to the pain, so my friend carried me to the shade so that I'd be out of the hot sun and we elevated the limb.  He went for help leaving me with food and water, I was hungry, but resisted eating much in case surgery would be necessary when I ended up in the hospital.
1	This is a tough question for me.  I dont ever remember an expeience that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  There were a few times when I knew that one of my children needed to see a doctor, but in these times, my knowledge was intuitive rather than inherant.
1	Not sure if this is what you are looking for but true story. A few years ago I experienced severe pain in my feet that lasted for weeks. I looked up the symptoms and was reasobly sure it was something called plantar fasciitis (sp?). It HURT. I went to my doctor and he agreed with my assessment. Unfortutely there doesn't seem to be an effective treatment other than stretching and not walking (or walking as little as possible) for many months to allow the muscles in the foot to heal. Near the end of the appointment my doctor offered me a shot of cortisone for the pain. I was surprised and promptly refused. The problem with the cortisone shot, in my opinion, is that it simply masks the pain and might lead me to overdo it during a time when I needed to rest, thus making the injury worse instead of better. It took over a year for the problem to go away. Even though I suffered through the pain I feel I made the right choice because the cortisone shot might have made the recovery last even longer!
-1	I saw him live with my mom
1	After having a stress test done I am now informed about all the risks and causes of heart attack and stroke. I had a false positive stress test, but I feel that I have gained a lot of knowledge associated with the heart. Now I have a lot of knowledge and useful information to help take care of my heart and help my family take care of theirs.
1	I studied and researched and read a lot about different forms of birth control before I went to my OBGyn and talked about the best method for me. I think she was impressed that I was so knowledgeable. 
1	A few years ago, I had to watch my mother die of a disease that should have been treated years before, but none of her doctors could ever diagnose it until it was too late. I found it appalling how little the medical professions knows and how much they say they know. It was left to me to care for her, almost without their help. I had to literally demand palliative care for her.
-1	Someone close to me started to freak out about a bump in their buttocks--from persol experience--that sounds like hemorrhoids. I was quite surprised that she was freaking out about such a thing, but it indeed turned out to be hemorrhoids. Another one that comes to mind is that a friend said he had abdomil issues and other related symptoms of appendicitis--I only thought of it because I did some research myself in fear of having it. When he went to his Doctor, it turns out I was correct.
-1	I cannot actually say that I can. After basic stats like one out of ten are mingled with ideas like false positives I lose confidence in my ability to be certain of their meaning. I think I actually deal in comparative strategies like value judging. For example 30% blockage of an blood vessel sounds terrible in and of itself but if the info accompanying that is stents are not used until 55% then that is how i gauge it.
-1	I was given a choice to get a flu shot I was told of all the side effects and I decided to get it.  Later I felt awful.  I called the doctor he stated that it happens sometimes.  I should just drink a lot of fluids and rest.
1	I have a family with a medical background on both sides of the clipboard.  This survey is mostly simple math.
1	Knowledge of my medical condition has helped me to avoid putting myself in a situation where I would be endangered. I know that I will put myself at risk if I do certain things that would increase my heart rate. I also need to slowly raise my health level through proper eating and strengthening myself to make my heart work less. Therefore by overhauling my nutrition and by avoiding those situations I have demonstrated knowledge of health issues. 
1	My family has a long history of medical issues, primarily autoimmune diseases. It has been imperative we stay as healthy as possible as many doctors are not knowledgeable in this field. Treatment is typically left to us and in several cases had better medical knowledge been obtained, lives would have been extended. One family member was lost due to a medical mistake, another to incorrect diagnoses, and another has had quality of life severely impaired because of incorrect diagnoses. I struggle with my own health and have two children with a complex medical history. I have also become the primary caregiver to my mother who is now severely impaired. If I am not fully aware and knowledgeable then the risks are simply too great. It's worth it to me to learn and understand all that I possibly can.  
1	I am working to lower my A1C count due to being pre-diabetic along with trying to lower my cholesterol. I am exercising and cutting back on sweets. I am also cutting back on my fat intake. I have been working on this for the past 5 months. I will be tested again in one month. I have read many articles and talked with my doctor regarding these tests.
-1	I spent a half a year researching if I had diabetes or not.  I found out a lot of things that contributed to diabetes, so I lost weight and balanced out my hormones. I also looked into people who reversed diabetes.  This saved me from the disease. 
1	An experience in my life that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I researched an upcoming procedure for my husband and got information about it and gave him suggestions as to things to bring up with his doctor.
1	One of my coworkers sees the same doctor as I do.  She was telling me about a recent visit and had a question about some of her blood work.  I was able to answer her questions because I had experience in similar blood work.
1	I helped to take care of my diabetic brother when he was little. I had to use nutritiol labels to determine how many carbs he had eaten and then figure out how many units of insulin he needed to take. 
-1	When I was in health class and gave a presentation on joints and arthritis.
1	The best example that I can think of was when my young daughter started having bed-wetting issues long after she had learned to go to the bathroom herself. The doctor did some tests and ruled out a UTI, which I was familiar with, then wanted to rule out constipation. She did this by doing some x-rays on my daughter. Sure enough, she just hadn't been drinking enough water and was really constipated, which was putting pressure on her bladder. This whole thing was pretty easily understandable, and was explained well by our pediatrician.
-1	Never
1	It was a time in summer, when one of my friend started feeling dizziness while playing in sun. We helped him to get him under the shadow and had him drank some water and after that he was felling better.
1	I think you have to have somewhat of an understand of medicine otherwise you can't trust if your doctor is right or wrong 
1	There was a time I had an ear infection but since it was my first in my life, I didn't exactly know how to explain what I was suffering from to the doctor, this made my diagnosis hard because I didn't really know what was going on but my glands in the neck region were swollen, so my doctor tried treating different stuff till I actually found out on my own with the help of the internet that I had an ear infection, then went back and told my doctor for proper medication.
1	Once when visiting a doctor I was asked if I understood everything and explained everything correctly to my doctor.
1	When my mother was diagnosed with stage 3 endometrial cancer I knew there wasn't a study or trial for her to participate in because I was transcribing for an oncologist at the time. 
1	My significant other had serve pain in his back for sometime and they gave him an MRI. We received a copy of the CD and looked at the imagery at home. I was able to tell him what was wrong with his spine prior to receiving the phone call from the doctor. At the appointment I discussed with the doctor the options for treatment and percentage wise how rare the condition was. Already knowing about some issues and being able to research and learn about the possibilities of treatment, it was easier to understand what the doctor thought was the best option and for us to make an informed one confidently and in a short period of time.
1	I have chronic shoulder pain that has been worsening for 25 years.  I know nothing can be done except pain pills.  I do not take them because I know I might become addicted.
1	An experience was when I was having high blood pressure. I am at a normal weight and exercise regularly. I went to the doctor and he wanted to put me on some pills which I read had bad side effects. I went home and read about it and found that l-arginine lowers your blood pressure and since it's an amino acid there's no side effect. I started taking it and my blood pressure got lowered and I didn't need to take the pills that were prescribed.
-1	When i had a stomach bug. I knew that steps i had to take in terms of what kind of food i should eat and which ones to avoid.
-1	I have moderate experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I am somewhat confident.
1	I went to the doctor for a cut on my hand, I needed stitches but the blood wouldn't stop. The doctor didn't know why and was about to give me medicine to make my blood clot. But I told him that I had taken aspirin. I knew that aspirin thins my blood and makes it harder to clot. So I told him and it saved me from having to take medication I didn't need. 
1	I had a colonoscopy at 32, that showed and removed several polyps, two pre-cancerous. I was told to have a repeat colonoscopy every 3 years, even though my 2nd generation family has a genetic defect that causes a greater, aggressive risk, and the fact that I was only 32. I researched the subject and decided to have one every year. Good thing, because for the next eight years, they always found some. Now I have one every three, if they don't find anything.
1	"I found a mole on my back that met some, but not all aspects of looking suspicious. When I brought it up to my PC doc,  but he wasn't really convinced.  I had to insist on a derm referral,  because I was fairly certain based on my research that the markers it did have meant it was bad. I did get the referral and the derm took one look at it and said,  yep that's coning of today. Though it eventually turned out to be ""really weird"" but not cancer,  i still felt I made the right call by insisting. "
1	I had a class in college that medical questions such as these on this survey. I did pretty well in that class. I was able to finish with a 87 in the class.
1	I took my mother to a health clinic to have them look at a problem she was having with her foot. there was a sign on the wall telling people they should report when they have been outside the country. I asked the doctor why weren't they interested when and if people traveled to Florida and may have been bitten by a mosquito. she agreed that that would be a good idea, but I doubt they printed up new posters or asked anyone then or now
1	My husband was having pain in stomach and he was useous, and he was bloated. I thought it was an ulcer but the first doctor he went to could not find anything. My husband wanted to just take aspirin, and wait until the pain went away. I was adamant that he not take aspirin because it would do more damage. And that he go to another doctor. He went to my doctor, and she found the ulcer. 
1	I was able to successfully perform the Heimlich maneuver for a gentleman that needed my help.  I was able to successfully pass CPR courses which demonstrates knowledge of medical issues.
-1	I have administered first aid and CPR to several individuals 
1	I found my mother passed out on the toilet.  I knew there was something about pressure on the vagus nerve that could make you pass out.  I remembered she needs to get blood to her head so I put her head down.  She came to a little and we were able to get her to lay on the bed.  Then she became totally awake and  responsive.  We still went to the emergency room, but she was fine.
1	I had gone to the doctor for a checkup and was told that my cholesterol was borderline high and that we needed to keep an eye on it, and that I might have to take medication. I laughed and said that I was not going to take cholesterol lowering meds, and that I could make it go down just by changing my diet. the Dr. gave the usual spiel about genetics and how that was not always possible and I went on my way. A couple of months, at most, later, after eating mainly vegan, I went back and it had gone down 20-some points. I know a lot about the things that contribute to chronic conditions, and what to do to help the body heal.  
1	As a medical professiol, my everyday experiences are  a constant testament of my medical expertise and knowledge given my involvement in patient care. 
-1	when i noticed symptoms in one of my friends and told him to see a doctor 
1	My brother has type I diabetes. He recently came to visit and in the morning he was unresponsive. I knew that his blood sugar must be low because he was incoherent and combative. I called 911 and when the paramedics arrived I explained what had happened and they were able to quickly check his blood sugar and give him a glucose drip to bring it back up. 
1	My experience is based on news stories, persol experiences, family experiences, now outdated first aid courses, and college biology. I have used my knowledge to determine when I or a family members need to go to a doctor or emergency room and to reassure and explain  information to my niece and nephew. 
-1	I have 4 children and all of them have issues with breathing. I gain more knowledge as each child disease progresses.
-1	I had a doctor present to me various things about my check up. I understood what my blood pressure was and things like that. Just had a good common awareness of the information.
1	Being pregnt and giving birth to my children gave me good experiences with medical fields and medical documentation. 
1	"I'm not really terribly interested in ""wet"" sciences. Because, frankly, ""Eww."" I understand what I read and I don't leave the health of my children to chance, but I don't go out of my way to seek out new medical knowledge."
1	I was in a long term relationship with someone with Type 1 diabetes, so I learned a lot about insulin resistance, carbohydrates, and the glycemic index. 
1	I would get strep throat regularly in the past. I don't exhibit the common symptoms associated with it, but I knew I had it. I made the doctor take a culture. It confirmed strep. The next time I had it, I opted to NOT take antibiotics, stay home for 3 days with lots of hydrations and Advil to keep my fever down. My hopes were to get over it and build a tolerance to it. It worked and I have not had strep throat in the decade since. Most recently, after breaking out with a skin rash of sorts, I figured out it was dyshidrotic eczema and went to the doctor. Without me telling her what I thought it was, she diagnosed it the same. This has also happened with a less common diagnosis of Bells Palsy and other issues.
1	I was told that a hysterectomy was necessary for fibroids.  I knew this was not accurate information.  Based on my own research and listening to doctors who specialized in this area.
1	I was a Medicare Specialist customer service rep for an insurance company.  I was frequently in contact with Doctor's offices and hospitals to help a patient seek clarification on diagnosis, coverages, prior authorizations, appeals, etc.
1	When I had my second child I knew quite a bit about HG which is extreme morning sickness that I had had with my first.  With my second I knew how to handle it better and knew what I needed to do to keep it under control.  
-1	When my father had a stroke
-1	I once worked in a retail pharmacy. I was able to learn plenty about medicines and medical conditions. I also knew information prior to that by reading books.
1	"After my third in-vitro cycle resulting in no viable follicles via aspiration, I knew something was very wrong.  I knew I would need help getting pregnt, but to have ZERO follicles aspirated after seeing 18 on the ultrasound was very unusual.  I saw many specialists about the problem and their best answer was ""You're a medical anomoly"".  I did research myself, and thought that maybe I had what's called Luteinized Unruptured Follicle Syndrome.  When I brought that information to the ""specialists"" they agreed that must be my issue."
1	I once had an experience of helping someone who sustained a leg injury.  I was able to provide a support mechanism for the leg until the ambulance came.
1	I have learned about different things from the internet. That way I know whether something will pass quickly or if I should go to the doctors. Thus, I haven't had to go to the doctors in years.
-1	After having a child I gained over fifty pounds, because of this weight and family history of diabetes I knew that it was important for my mental and physical health to eat healthy and exercise.
1	A dentist was wanting to do serial extractions on my son.  I was worried about the wrong teeth getting pulled.  I got online and printed out diagrams of teeth labeled with numbers and letters, then I double and triple checked with the hygienist to make sure everything would get done right.
1	I was hiking with a friend and he fell down the hill and broke his leg. I was able to make a splint for him to keep his leg still and I kept him hydrated until help arrived.
1	My mother was in the hospital. I had spoke to her on the phone and she sounded fine. I arrived at hospital about 1 1/2 hours later. She was lethargic and her pulse was 40. I knew from dealing with different things while taking care of her that something had changed in the time I had talked to her until I got to hospital. I talked to the nurse who told me she had had her morning medicine. I ask to see her chart of exactly what she had been given. The nurse wasn't happy about that but I assured her I wasn't trying to cause trouble I just wanted to find out what was wrong with my mother. After looking at her chart I realized she had been given too much of one of her medicines. There was an error by doctor or hospital in what she actually took. I immediately called pharmacy spoke to pharmacist, explained what had happen and had him look up what to expect. It wasn't an amount that would cause any damage, just make her feel bad for awhile. I had to take control as all the nurse seemed concerned about was who's fault it was. I explained to her...mistakes happen..we're human but when you make one or one is made you try to correct it asap.
1	"I had surgery on my abdomen which left a scar from my waist to mid-chest. I developed a hernia soon after. Someone asked me what happened since they could see me ""stomach"" sticking out so far. I was able to explain that surgery weakened muscle and other tissue resulting in a hernia. "
-1	I read a lot information about diseases on line.
1	There was a time when i saw my brother bleeding and i knew i had to stop the blood
1	I have offered advice before to a friend regarding dehydration. I let them know the effects and that it is important to drink water.
1	During my first pregncy my blood pressure continued to rise in my last weeks. Suddenly I began to have rapid swelling in my legs, hands, and face. I knew that this could lead to a massive complication and risk the life of my and my child. I told my doctor my symptoms, she ran some tests, and I was induced the next day. 
1	I took a C class a few years ago when I was exploring different things, and I thought it might come in handy to know this stuff anyway. I already knew most of the things on the tests, but it was good practice to know how to take BP and the other measurements. Other than that, I can only say I usually do research on a condition that a close relative might have, so I can send them the info if they're interested. But it's frustrating to not have access to some of the medical research materials online.
1	My dad sprained his ankle one night, he wanted to start applying heat pad on it immediately, I told him not to. For the first 48 or better 72 hours of sprain, you better apply ice pack first to reduce swelling and tissue bleeding, then use the heat after 72 hours. 
1	I haven't had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge in medical issues. 
1	When I was 14 my father was diagnosed with lung cancer and died 3 months later after having gone through both chemo and radiation treatments. When I was 24 my mother died of lung cancer after having fought it for years going through numerous surgeries and chemo treatments. When I was 25 one of my siblings died of a massive heart attack. When I was 34 I lost another sibling who died of a heart condition. When I was 39 my oldest brother died from a heart attack. There have been numerous health problems in my family and I make it a point to stay educated and informed about health topics.
1	When my grandmother was in the hospital, she seemed extremely out of it.She wasn't able to feed herself or move. I told the staff and they told me that she had experienced a minor stroke.
1	Just as much as the normal person I think. I take care of a Type 1 Diabetic child so that has to count for something. 
1	I could read and understand the calories in shopping for nutritiol shakes and food at the grocery store. One of the symptoms of sarcoidosis was weight loss. I lost 35 pounds very quickly. I had to find the highest calorie food and drink to restore my energy and weight.
1	When my boyfriend became diabetic I noticed a body odor. My Mom had also been diabetic and I recognized it. He was vehemently denying it and I filly got him to go to the Dr. who said it was pre-diabetes.  
-1	
1	My first son supposedly had a tumor, hydrocephalus, and TB in the first 18 months of his life.  He actually had none of those things but I know the worry involved, shortened my life by many years. He is now 22 and normal. And they told me he might have Down's before he was born.
-1	I was once diagnosed with pre-diabetes. I took this information and purchased  blood sugar testing kit to monitor and reduce my blood sugar. Within a month, I was able to significantly reduce my sugar level to well within a normal range.
-1	After the Christmas party in 2012, I had a severe flu that took a couple of weeks to heal. All of the symptoms of flue went away but the cough stayed for more than a month, my whole body was sore from coughing.  Only until I realized myself that the new blood pressure medication I was taking could be an ace inhibitor, of which I was educated by my younger sister who is a nurse.  I called the doctor's office to clarify, and it was then, doctor replaced my medication with Losartan Potassium and the coughing went away immediately.
1	A doctor trying to tell me that pain and spotting after a routine pap exam are normal. Never had that happen before or since.  Incidentally, that was the same doctor I had to fight over the type of birth control pill I wanted to take.
1	I don't know that I've had an experience that demonstrated my having a knowledge of health or medical issues. I support a single payer option for healthcare but that's just an opinion based on politics and economics. 
-1	When I do not have the information I need I go to reliable sources on the internet and research the health subjects 
-1	When my father was told that he had a heart problem and they were going to put a tube in his vain to open it up and when they said that if that doesn't work they were going to put a stint in his artery.
1	My blood sugar used to be in the 250 range, so I started taking 40 mL/cc of insulin in the morning and at night, and my blood sugar has now dropped to the 80-125 range. I have to monitor when the blood sugar gets too low at night, and when it rises too high in the day.
1	I have high blood pressure, I noticed one day that my blood pressure was above 190. I quickly went to the hospital because I know that a very high blood pressure can lead to having a stroke. 
1	One time I was shopping in a supermarket and I noticed and old man slumped over his cart holding his chest. It was immediately clear to me that he was probably having a heart attack. I contacted the store clerk and she called 911. The ambulance arrived and the EMT's confirmed that he was having a heart attack.
-1	I have been suffering from tummy ache for a long time and I was doing home remedies for atleast a year. This was going for a while and filly one day I started to research and figured out I might be suffering from Appendicitis and so got scared went to the doctor got checked and he said this is the fil stage please get a Admitted to the hospital for the surgery. 
1	A few years ago, a nurse practitioner prescribed buspirone for my anxiety. I reminded him that psychiatric drugs in general tend to affect me much more strongly than they do most people, and suggested that I should start at the lowest dose possible. He wrote the prescription for the second lowest dose available. When I got home with the medication, I broke the tablets into quarters for the first week, then into halves for the next week. I didn't have any adverse effects, but did not really see any positive effects either, so on the third week, I took whole tablets as prescribed. I got very useated, extremely dizzy, and found it nearly impossible to stay awake. I continued at the recommended dose, thinking that maybe these were side effects that would wear off with time, but they persisted. I tried to reach the nurse practitioner, but he was on vacation and I didn't feel comfortable discussing it with anyone else in the office, so I went online and looked up information about the medication. I learned that what I was experiencing were symptoms of a severe overdose of the medication. Going to an emergency room was recommended, but I felt certain that no one would listen to me if I tried to explain my drug sensitivity and that they'd probably think I took some illegal drug. I'm aware that some psychiatric drugs recommend tapering off rather than stopping abruptly, so I looked for this information online and found that while it's not recommended to stop abruptly, in some situations it may be necessary. I decided that this was one of those situations, so I stopped taking the medication. The symptoms decreased appreciably within several hours, and though there was some lingering dizziness, everything else was more or less back to normal within a few days.
1	 I was diagnosed with HPV. Received several biopsies. My sister had a brain disease and brain surgery. My boyfriend was diagnosed with stage 3 lymphoma and underwent chemotherapy. 
1	I recently went to the doctor and was told I had high salt intake and low potassium intake, I needed to increase my potassium intake 50% to get to the normal level of potassium per day.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health is that working out makes me look and feel healthier. Prior to doing cross training I felt lethargic and dull. After I have been doing the workout I feel healthier and am full of energy. My knowledge told me that if I want to stop feeling lethargic then I need to work out. I gained this knowledge through media and websites that I most recently frequent.
-1	I had white spots in the back of my throat with a terrible throat pain. I knew already that I had strep throat from the past. I knew to gurgle salt water and get to the doctor for antibiotics.
1	Recently I've been having testicle pain, pain in the side, and pain in the back. I used Google to come to the conclusion that I had an infection. The urologist to whom I was sent, came to the same conclusion and prescribed me antibiotics.
1	In high school, I volunteered at my school's blood drive every semester. When some students doting blood would feel light-headed or dizzy, I knew to have them lie flat on their back with their knees bent to return blood flow to their head. Many of the medical staff were impressed by my immediate and calm response when helping people.
1	Cannot recall
1	I was at the scene of a car accident. The occupants in the car were not in any further immediate danger. Thus, I instructed others arriving on the scene not move any of the occupants in the car until the paramedics arrived. I know if someone is injured and improperly moved it could result in furthering the injury significantly. 
-1	Humans have long sought advice from those with knowledge or skill in healing. Paleopathology and other historical records, allow an examition of how ancient societies dealt with illness and outbreak
-1	When I went to the ER for some back spasms, they wanted to give me 10ml of morphine. I'd never had it, but I knew that I was easily susceptible to medications and their effects, so I told them to please start at 2, and we could work our way up. By the time we hit 4, I was pain free, but I was also barely able to walk on my own. I'm scared to know what it would have been like if they have given me 10. 
1	I was supposed to play golf one morning, but when I woke up I discovered that my back was bothering me. I tried loosening it up with some light stretching exercises, but that didn't help. I knew that the violent twisting involved in a golf swing could aggravate my back and cause real injury, so I cancelled my tee time and allowed my back to rest. Ialso used a heat pad to it, and by the next week everything was better and I was able to play.
1	When going to my annual checkout, I can understand my lab results and diagnosis because my college nurse practitioner taught me how. 
-1	I helped a friend was almost died from drowning. Three months prior I took a cpr class. We were at the YMCA and the life guard went to the restroom. I had to pull her from the deep in and perform cpr.
1	My mother fell and hit her knee. She was able to walk and thought it would be fine with ice. I insisted she get an x-ray. She had broken her knee cap and needed surgery.
1	I am caregiver to my elderly mother for many years. She literally has issues from head to toe. I put out her meds every day. Her doctors trust me to make minor dose adjustments. Even 0.5mg can make a difference. So often doctors prescribe in increments of 25 mg or 50 mg, resulting in overdose. The dose has to be customized for each patient. 
-1	Through out my life i have been around a mother who had Lupus and a few other medical issues. As the years went on and being a heavy smoker she got Enphazima. Sadly she passed away just this past winter. I Had many talks with doctors on her behalf and was told of things we could and couldnt due. the list got smalled as time went on as she didnt like to follow any set plan. I Myself also have a medical issue call von willebrand's disease and have had to go to a blood specialist for over 20 years. 
1	I noticed a place on my husband's face that was diagnosed as a sun spot by 2 internists and a dermatologist. It was very small and was not growing on the surface. I had my husband go to a new dermatologist, who also thought it was nothing, and have it removed. It was cancer! Took 2 cuttings to remove all cells and many trips to a reconstruction plastic surgeon to fix his face. We are now down to two trips a year for skin checks and have been clear for almost 5 years. I do not know why I felt so strongly about this spot, but I had my husband insist it be taken off even if it turned out to be nothing. Melanoma is nothing to fool around with. 
1	A friend of mine had a health concern regarding her surprising hair loss. I gave her advice and medical knowledge I'd researched myself regarding the topic. I too had had to same concern regarding myself, so I felt confident letting her know. When she reported to me that she had gone to see her physician and they repeated exactly what I had mentioned to her, I felt proud of myself.
1	I had a niece who got into a motorcycle accident. When we went to the hospital the doctor told us in a long winded medical speak that she was already dead and they were just keeping her body alive to harvest the organs. 
1	I was able to check my son's through and saw that his tonsils were red and had puss on them.  I thought he might have tonsillitis and it ended up he did.
1	My mother recently beat breast cancer, I was able to follow along with the doctors/surgeons enough to give her advice. 
1	I experienced the onset of a sleep disorder that significantly affected my life in many ways.  I sought medical help, and also sought assistance from a variety of other sources, all of which were helpful.
-1	I took the initiative to find out about the medical issue that I had. Then I took an appointment with my doctor to discuss the issue & see what steps could be taken o prevent it. I made a schedule to work out a way to avoid me having the issue in the future.
1	I was having mouth ulcers, interrupted sleep, hot flashes and irregular periods about a year ago. I immediately knew it was a hormone imbalance and the start of perimenopause.  I knew that I needed to go to the physician and get a hormone replacement therapy if I was going to start feeling more normal.  I went to a gynecologist since they are more equipped in handling this type of problem.  I know that for heart and bone health it is important that I take some kind of hormone replacement because Osteoporosis does run in my family.  I also knew I needed a supplement with not only estrogen but progesterone.  So I was sure to notice the physician gave me the right prescription.  And to save money I also knew that I could cut the pill in half since the best therapy is the lowest dose that relieves symptoms.  I cut the pills in half and they seem to be working fine and have relieved the menopausal symptoms. 
1	When my daughter was born she had a slight yellow to her eyes so I knew most likely she was jaundice
-1	I have never had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	By reading about any abnormal thing I experience, I find out about the allergies I have from the different food or drugs I take, while the doctor did not give me the right answers to my questions.
1	A few years ago, I decided that I needed to lose weight. So, I did a bit of research, and started tracking calories that I was taking in and trying to make sure that I was doing enough exercise to burn off a healthy amount of them. This led to a few friends noticing, and I was able to share what I had learned, by the end of the year we had all lost 15-20 pounds. 
1	A few times at work, I fell asleep in the morning, and as I woke up, knew I was pected a sleep condition. I looked in a medical book and online and discobered it is Sleep Paralysis.awake but couldn't talk or move my body. I susy
1	I discovered at 18 what type of mental disorders I had. I'd been experiencing these extreme ailments since 12. Because I had had the symptoms for so long, it was extremely easy to research the information online when I found out the specific terms.
1	I have begun using essential oils, and I have used them on many different ailments and problems. One thing I used them to clear up was using lemon oil with my water once a day to cleanse my body and my kidney numbers became much better.
1	When I was overweight and I would be out of breathe all the time from barely doing anything and I realized my heart was working too hard and I had to lose weight and exercise.
1	I witnessed an individual hit by a car while riding a bicycle.  I immediately responded to the victim, provided treatment for shock and for superficial cuts and bruises.  I stabilized their head and lower leg which they stated was in significant pain and contacted an ambulance.  
-1	i has to have surgery for fibroids, i did know when they being but i went to see the for a pap smear and i was diagnosed then as having them  
1	I wa sin a car accident and had to visit  doctors and physical therapists  for a few months. I learned a lot  from the doctors and staff members
1	when noticing the way that my body was reacting and breaking out that I knew something was wrong so I researched it and brought it to the attention of my doctor and gave him my opinion what it may be
1	I often take my parents to the doctor because they need me to translate so when the doctor explained that he had vertigo I had to learn the maneuvers that he needed to do at home along with the medicine for him to feel better.  He tends to quickly forget and is often stubborn about about following the doctor's orders so I made sure I remembered the maneuver so I could advise him at home.
-1	When a lady needed cpr. I knew exactly what to do because I have been trained in cpr. I acted quickly and calmly , and stayed with her until the ambulance arrived.
1	I do not have much knowledge of health or medical issues except for what I have experienced. One thing I have experienced is gestatiol diabetes, and I am now able to help people by telling them how I felt and how I maged my blood sugar.
1	I read online.  I educated myself about treatment.  I learned a lot and asked the doctor great questions about my recovery.
1	When I have uncertain disease even though simple test cannot be detected. I once needed to have a lot of tests to determine what's on earth of my health conditions. I always search the internet for answers besides ask my physician. That's a difficult time to go on guessing of own medical issues.
1	I had persistent pain around my tail bone area from bad lifting. I asked my doctor if the pain could be due to referred pain from hurting my lower back. My doctor agreed it was possible
-1	I am ok with medical knowledge. I work with it. I am not good at math.
1	I have moved a lot and I have a chronic illness so the fact that I know exactly what my condition is and what works best for me allows me to work with different doctors to make sure that they are treating me with what works best for me.  I can talk to doctors using medical terms that they use so they understand that I know exactly what is wrong.
1	I am currently working in benefits field in HR so i am starting to understand the variety a little more, otherwise i have had many family illnesses in my life.
-1	I had high cholesterol and did not want to take the prescribed medicine because i do not like taking any medicine at all so i changed my diet and dranked grapefruit and water. When i went back for a dr visit my cholesteroll was mormal so i was taken off the meds.
-1	This was just recently I had kidney pain. I knew that that was flank pain and then blood in the urine. Meaning I would have to have a CT scan and they would give me antibiotics from me looking the information on the internet and when I went to the doctor they did exactly that.
1	I'd say the closest is learning more about diet in order to get in better shape.  Diet is key and has so much to do with your health.
-1	when my kid had constipation, i knew what to do in that situation. which is drink a lot of liquid and try sitting on the toiletseat to see if you can squat and maybe that will help. 
-1	My dad had bipolar and I dealt with this throughout my life. I started doing research on my own when I was young because I wanted to better understand what my dad was going through. I continued to do this throughout his life when he was diagnosed with diabetes and cardiomyopathy. I needed to know how to best care for him. I do this with my own conditions as well.  
1	Had a doctor tell me I needed a prescription for gestational diabetes. I denied taking it and controlled it just fine using diet and exercise on my own.
-1	I can't really think of any? This isn't something that comes up a lot
1	A friend of mine was in a very tense situation with her boyfriend and starting having shortness of breath. Eventually she was saying she was having chest pains and that she was having a heart attack. I told her to breathe through her nose and out through her mouth and started talking to her about her situation, she eventually calmed down and said she didn't feel chest pain anymore.
-1	being sick on multiple occasions and solving with hoe remedies instead of going to dr
1	As a mother you learn a lot about health issues. One thing that I learned along the way is that if you have a cold/cough and a persons breathing can be heard while listening against their back, at the least, they have bronchitis
1	I have not had any experience that I was as if knowledgeable when it comes to issues in medicine.
1	I once visited a friend who was finishing up some carpentry work in his workshop. He cut his hand and asked if he should get it sewn up. I advised him that if he'd cut himself deep enough to reveal fatty yellow tissue, that he should go to the emergency room and get stitches. He did, so he did.
1	Helping my relative navigate their new diagnosis by pointing them in the direction of resources
1	My wife was about to have heart surgery and was sure she would die. I told her the success rate was 98 % for her operation due to 2 % dying from anesthesia intolerance. Since she had recently tolerated general anesthesia, she should not be concerned about that issue.
1	My mother always want me with her when she takes medical exams because she knows I'm good at understanding what doctors says and I always ask relevant questions.
1	When I had high blood pressure I knew I needed to remove stress, exercise and eat well.  I was able to lower it without taking medication. 
-1	I had a wart on my thumb, the doctor used the freeze medication to burn it off. But I knew it would still grow back because I could still feel and see remnants, and sure enough it grew back. Sometimes common sense is useful in medical issues!
1	Years ago, my brother wondered why he was skinnier than I am, even though we ate just about the same amount of food. I used an online calculator to get an estimate of the minimum amount of calories he needs to maintain his weight. Upon comparing it to mine, he noticed that although we ate the same amount of calories, his maintenance calories needed were higher than mine.
1	I went to the doctors about one issue and the doctor brought up another issue I was already aware of. I told them some of the things I already knew about the separate issue and they seemed impressed with my knowledge.It made me feel like I was in charge of and aware of my own health.
1	I felt a pop in my knee and it swelled up and I couldn't walk for days. I went online and figured out based on comparing my research to my symptoms that I likely tore my ACL. Sure enough when I went to the doctor he referred me to an orthopedic surgeon who gave me a MRI and confirmed that I had torn my ACL.
1	My sister has MS and I have been the primary person seeking out treatments and getting her into trials.I have to understand what is out there and if it is an option.
-1	To be honest i cant recall the last time i demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. This would have to be the most recent time that i can recall.
-1	I once read about the symptoms of diabetes since it runs in my family. I was thinking I had a few of the symptoms. It turns out I was starting to contract diabetes and I workout every day to make sure I don't ever get full blown diabetes.
1	These are easy calculations. Basic percents and common sense calculations.
-1	My doctor was considering putting me on medication for high blood pressure and I was scheduled for an appointment to see her. When I did see her, I requested that she put me on a specific medication called Losartan since I did research on the medications my health insurance covered that had the least side-effects. There were also some other minor health benefits that might result from taking Losartan, which made the choice quite clear. My doctor is normally quite willing to listen to me and is quite reasonable and agreed to write me a prescription for Losartan.
1	I demonstrate knowledge of health and medical issues in my work every day. Whether it is caring for my own children or the patients I care for every day.
1	I was at a dentist and he said that one of my wisdom tooth had cavity. He said that we have two choices, we can test and see how bad the cavity is then decide with to extract the tooth or do root canal to save the tooth. After the testing he suggested root canal, which was expensive. I asked the wisdom tooth has no purpose right, can we not extract it instead. To which he agreed. But that was not the first option he gave me.
1	I was working in a commercial kitchen with volunteer staff and someone cut their finger while chopping vegetables. They were a bit freaked out but I told them to put pressure on the wound to stop the bleeding until we could get them to a medical tent. It worked and they were pretty much fine after being stitched up.
1	I reminded my father, gently, that medicine is mostly preventative nowadays. Not a great example, but it's all I could think of.
1	When I went to see my dermatologist about a rash I had on my face, he wanted to prescribe me antibiotics. But, I insisted on anti-fungals because I had researched the rash online several times before meeting with my doctor, and I knew that if the infection was fungal, the antibiotics would make it worse. He looked some things up and eventually he reluctantly agreed, and I was eight. The rash was cured.
-1	I know about high pressure.
-1	I visited a doctor for yearly checkup. They told me about a condition I might have and recommended an additional visit. I looked up online about the condition but I did not see that I had any of the symptoms. As time went on I continued to be in good health.
1	I cured myself of an infection using Allicin rather than rx antibiotics. The arrogant and ignorant doctor had never heard of Allicin, and denied it would work. 
1	Talking to a psychologist I tested him and was able to humble him because I know more than he does about what we were discussing.
1	When I was pregnant I did lots of research and new what I wanted for the birth. 
1	When my youngest son was showing sign of developmental delays I new what questions to ask and where to seek therapy for him because my older son had had similar issues.
1	My father had a brain tumor, it was a Glioblastoma. It was not found until it was very large and even with surgery they could not do much with it. I spent the next month learning all I could about that form of tumor and the available treatments. I spent days trying to find any trials or experimental treatments that might work. I found one at Duke and was able to get him enrolled but he passed away before the trial began. 
1	At work, both therapists were out for the morning and an ew admit came in. He was listed as mute as nursing could get no response other than agitation out of the patient. Chart review - damage to left hemisphere of brain (broca's wernicke area), non-fluent aphasia. I suggested that people start singing to him to get something more in terms of responses. It worked, he could sing (nothing drastic or terribly clear however, enough that communication was somewhat possible.)
-1	doctor explained to me what was going on and i understood it completely with no questions
1	I think the most memorable experience I can think of is when I started experiencing acute pain in my general groin area & started frantically googling the symptoms, prior to going to an emergency room, which were actually very hard to narrow down. Through a process of elimination, I was able to determine I was suffering from acute epididymitis, which the ER doctor was actually very reluctant to diagnose given that I did not fit into the typical risk group/rarity of occurrence, but that is indeed ultimately what it was.
1	When I got epilepsy when I was a teen I was able to go online and get relevant information pertaining to my disorder.
-1	I demonstrated knowledge of my health issues when I knew my back hurt due to poor posture and I told my doctor about it and he agreed.
1	I think it is determining the best solution for my anti depressants. It causes me to wake up early in the morning. I have done different things for a few weeks at a time to rule out various possibilities while trying to determine the solution.
1	When I was diagnosed with lymphoma, I had to undergo extensive counseling
-1	It could help me figure out the different ways health information is presented. That means I have a better grasp of my own health issues that might come up.
-1	I started having issues with my stomach. This included frequent heartburn and indigestion, and pain between my bellybutton and my breasts, throwing up acid, losing weight, and other things. During college, I had read about stomach ulcers. I had not looked up the symptoms yet because I always do that and I didn't want to get myself worked up. After dealing with it for awhile, I figured I had a stomach ulcer and I should probably look up how to go about treating it. Sure enough, when I looked it up, the symptoms matched 100% My grandmother was going to the doctor for her colon, and he was super friendly and I asked him about the possibility of me ACTUALLY having an ulcer. He asked me questions, asked me to show him where it was hurting--all for free. He said for me to keep doing what I was doing which was taking OTC Prilosec. He said the fact that I started that on my own was a big help in healing the ulcer. So, my knowledge from college led me to accurately start taking the right medicine without going to the doctor.
1	Well, I was talking with a pharmacist the other day and noted that modern psychiatry was weaker than other fields of medicine because the brain is so much more complicated than other organs. The pharmacist then went into a 10 minute long tirade about how much he agreed with me. 
1	i have a toddler, she had pin worms, i knew to go to the pharmacy and buy the medicine
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was when my friends newborn had not pooped in a day and a half. I suggested to slightly and gently insert a thermometer into the baby's bottom. Within seconds the baby was pooping, and my friend was a happy dad.
-1	Just personal experience with myself and family
1	A friend of mine had pain around his genital area several years ago, and he said he had experienced the pain for a while. I knew it didn't sound normal, so I told him to get it checked because I thought it could be testicular cancer. It turns out it was after a screening and he had surgery to remove the cancer. I felt like I demonstrated a bit of knowledge there.
1	When I was given a prescription by my doctor for chronic back pain. I went through multiple tests at the hospital and had several talks with my doctor about pain management and exactly the root cause of the pain. I took the proper steps to rectify the situation and read all side effects of medication I was prescribed. I even switched my medication until I found something that was the most beneficial. 
1	Someone gave an account of feeling that they were being held down by someone when they woke up. It felt like an evil presence like they were being attacked by an evil entity. I was able to reassure them that this is sleep paralysis and it's very common. Most people will have one or two episodes in their life but I tend to get them more frequently so I could empathize.
1	My daughter complained of hip pain following a stomach virus.  Over a few days, it got worse.  I made a doctor's appointment and while waiting did some research.  I didn't interfere with the doctor's diagnostics, but I did manage to come up with her eventual diagnosis before we saw her.
-1	An experience that describes my knowledge is when I was trying to get pregnant. I knew I was infertile and there was something wrong. I'm young there's zero reason. I had three miscarriages . I did some internet sleuthing and suspected I had pcos. I told my doctor and it was confirmed. I have cysts all over my ovaries and I don't ovulate. I also have squanmous cells in my uterus that have a 20% chance of becoming cancer. Its not from HPV so its more rare than what most people get. 
1	I like to keep read up on new health advances and I like to keep read up on changes to health practices. 
-1	When I had the flu a couple of years ago. I just knew that is what I had before I went to the doctor. I went to the doctor and told her I have the flu and she said well let's just double check to make sure and that is what I had.
1	My doctor was reading my blood pressure and started to explain to me about the readings. I already knew about the optimal levels of blood pressure and ways to keep my blood pressure in check.
-1	I don't have any.
-1	Counting calories to gain weight. I track my protein, carbohydrate, and fat intake to ensure I'm eating enough of each. I eat plenty healthy fat to maintain joint, heart, and brain heath.
1	Well my mom and grandma have both had cancer (breast/skin) and because of this I made sure to learn as much about skin cancer and detecting what is and isn't cancerous. Because of this I also get my self checked regulatory from a dermatologist
-1	general life experiences over several years of living
-1	I try to read everything the best of my ablity. Remember how my doctor describes my medical records and connect it to this.
-1	Just going on feeling
-1	In talking with my doctor I was able to avoid a dangerous surgery because I knew more of the risks.
1	one day i woke up with severe, sharp, stabbing pain in my upper mid right abdomen. i had a strong feeling it was my gallbladder and went to the ER. i had an emergency cholecystectomy that night.
1	I can't think of anything specific. I have a general knowledge of anatomy and medical terms, so usually there isn't a need to have anything explained to me. There never has been a specific case where I dazzled medical professionals with my knowledge.
-1	When I took an intro to health medicine class in college.
-1	When I decided to lose weight, I believed that i was the best person for any body that is trying t lose weight.
-1	Research indicates that staying physically active can help prevent or delay certain diseases, including some cancers, heart disease and diabetes, and also relieve depression and improve mood. Inactivity often accompanies advancing age, but it doesn't have to. Check with your local churches or synagogues, senior centers, and shopping malls for exercise and walking programs. Like exercise, your eating habits are often not good if you live and eat alone. It's important for successful aging to eat foods rich in nutrients and avoid the empty calories in candy and sweets.
1	been taking blood pressure medication for 1 year now and learning about my health a I go
1	I have just generally always known when something is serious enough to need the hospital or doctor, and when you can treat at him. Your health isn't something to be risked.
1	Every member of my family who has got cancer and that number is 4, has died immediately after getting chemo treatment. I research the subject and found out it only has a 7% success rate and doing nothing has a 9% success rate. In light of that, I think we may have to reassess whether  this is the best way to treat this disease.
1	I was able to tell my doctor my symptoms and was diagnosed with exactly what I told them I thought I had. 
1	I was able to speak with a doctor on my mother's behalf of heard medical issue and then I was able to explain the response to her.
1	Probably the only experience that I have ever had that I am knowledgeable about was pregnancy. After having 4 children I learned a lot about this experience. I wouldn't say I am an expert, but I do know quite a bit.
1	The last time I went to the doctor I was aware of the reasons my blood pressure was high. I have to eat less red meat and exercise more.
1	I've been going to the doctors a lot because I was diagnosed with IBS. I feel like I'm well aware of gastrointestinal issues now. I didn't know what a colonoscopy was before. I know certain medications that I wouldn't have known before. For example, I currently take amitriptyline.
-1	"My mother is an RN and sometimes I can understand what she is saying to me when she speaks in her ""nurse"" talk."
1	My wife has been pregnant many times and she has miscarried several times.  I know what to look for on an ultrasound machine and have knowledge of how to use it by watching nurses operate the machine.  I know the things to look for right away.
1	"I have LVH (left ventricle hypertrophy) as verified by a EKG and a subsequent echo cardiogram.  This was very scary, since i was so young when it was diagnosed.  It turns out its nothing major, but i need to just monitor it.  Apparently  a lot of ""bigger"" guys have it."
-1	I have been to see a doctor regularly all of my life so I have had the opportunity to ask a lot of questions. I also watch a lot of medical shows so I pick up a little information here and there.
-1	My fiance recently had a problem with his gallbladder. The day before he went to the hospital, his eyes and skin were turning yellow. I told him that something was wrong with his liver. We went to the hospital the next day and it turns out a gall stone was blocking his liver.
-1	When I looked up information online that informed me of certain symptoms that were linked to diseases worse than I thought I had I was able to control my anxiety and find out the real problem instead of freaking out.
1	When my husband was 29 he had a virus and was not feeling well for days, that weekend he mentioned chest pain and I made him go to the ER, sure enough his triponen levels were high and he had had a heart attack caused by pericarditis. 
1	I hurt my shoulder when I was weightlifting. I went to a few orthopedic surgeons. I found out that I tore something in my shoulder, and it would take many years to heal by itself.
-1	I went to the doctor when I had an ear problem and I knew the cause and the doctor was impressed with my ear knowledge
1	I work in a medical setting at a university, and work closely with doctors every day. Over time, I have learned more about medicine, just by being around health professionals often. 
1	When I got pregnant, I figured it out right away because I knew what even the less common symptoms were.  I was able to figure out that I was pregnant due to my symptoms, and I was able to quickly get a doctor's appointment because I knew what kind of doctor I needed.  I also knew the time frame for the first appointment, and what would be happening at that appointment, so I was able to be prepared with any questions I had.
-1	When I had very bad chest pain I took every medicine I could and talked to friends. I went beyond the 'webMD says you have cancer' websites and got actual opinions and stories from people online. It turned out I had pleurisy.  I self diagnosed myself and the doctor then diagnosed me with it. It has very tell-tale symptoms. When I got it again a year later I knew right what it was, and warn other people when they have those symptoms. 
1	It was when my doctor was asking me what I thought was wrong with me.  I had done quite a bit of googling and had went into detail, explaining the symptoms.  Basically, instead of saying it hurts, I am able to constantly explain exactly where, how much, and that type of thing.  I am able to coherently explain my condition to any medical person, to better help them diagnose me.  I feel that is a kind of knowledge of medical issues.
-1	I was able to help a child with an allergy who was throwing up after consuming a bad food. She was also choking on her vomit and I was able to go through the protocol to help her at that moment and in the long term. 
1	I had testicular cancer at age 20. going in i didn't know much about it. But through the process i did a lot of research and learned a lot. for instance. my doctor told me that my lymph nodes were 5 mm and were getting close to the threshold of concern, which is 7 mm. i knew that from research online. 
-1	i have no idea what experience in my life demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. i dont have any
-1	My wife had an allergic reaction to a medication and I informed her she needed to take Benadryl and call the doctor. 
-1	I read the internet. Seriously, math is cute but it comes down to communication. If a smart person can't explain something so others can understand it the they aren't actually that smart
-1	I took a class in college about health and Sociology, and there were many projects related to poverty and the ability to access medical care, and/or to even be able to afford it.  We learned lots of terms, and issues, and controveries related to health access in the country.
1	When I went with my mom to the doctor about her heart issues, the doctor asked her how often she feels stress. She told him not very often, but I told him that she stresses literally all the time. She sees it as routing worrying, so she didn;t think it was worth mentioning. 
-1	I can say that thanks to God I have never passed for a moment like that I hope not to do it I feel very young
-1	As someone that frequently gets kidneystones, I helped a friend realize they were suffering from kidneystones and gave the some suggestions as to how to reduce the pain. 
1	"After realizing I had a chronic disease, I looked up as much information as I could about it. I realized that through recent research, CFS is likely due to a malfunctioning immune system. It may be stuck in ""high gear"" after a viral infection, such as mono."
1	I was able to have an intelligent conversation with my doctor about my thyroid levels. I had already been to doctors for the problem before and had had them explained to me briefly, so I already knew something about the subject.
1	I cut my finger stabbing ants. I got some old rags from the shed and taped the rag around my finger.
-1	When I was 22, I had shingles. Before I got shingles, I had a friend that experienced it when he was 9. That was how I knew I had shingles. So I went to the doctor and I told her I think I have shingles. She told me I was right and that I do have shingles.
-1	when my abdomen hurt about 10 years ago, I knew it was appendicitis from the feeling and what I knew about the condition. I went to the emergency room and told them what i thought it was and they ran tests. It came back that I was right and I had to have surgery
-1	boy this one is tough maybe self diagnosing that I had a sinus infection so that I didn't have to go to the doctor and spend a lot of money on medicine and copays and I was actually right
1	I don't know that I have any health or medical knowledge to actually demonstrate.  I do have allergies so I feel like throughout the years I have learned a lot about allergies and their symptoms, so I know what to do and what medicine to take when my allergies start acting up.
-1	Medical issue is very important one which must have take care immediately and require quickly and it will be changing our minds in to good think fo it
1	I've had a series of hemorrhoids ranging from mild to thrombosed over the years. After my first thrombosed hemorrhoid, I was aware of the early signs of a hemorrhoid that could get worse. Recently, I became aware of these early signs and took steps (ice pack, warm bath, higher fiber) to ward off a worse situation.
1	My mom got very sick, and the doctors admitted him for one thing, when in reality it was something entirely different that was bothering him. Her lung was partially collapsed, and they admitted her for bronchitis, or some sort of breathing issue, which was a TOTALLY wrong diagnosis. She almost died because her doctor didn't explain things  clearly to her, or allow her to seek out a second opinion until her lung totally collapsed. This, to me, is why it is so important to be thorough with the information presented and to ensure that the doctors and nurses are thorough, too. 
-1	having prostrate problems, research and found a two drug us would shrink and help. asked my dr for prescription which she wrote
1	I recently went to the urgent care because I thought I had a specific condition. I recognized symptoms of this condition, and I looked up the symptoms online to confirm what I thought I had. When I saw the doctor, he confirmed that I had what I thought I had an prescribed me the appropriate medications to treat it.
1	Just growing up and on into adulthood the illnesses I have had or my family, or injuries have led me to have a basic understanding of health and when something is a real emergency. I have had to deal with a great many different scenarios, surgeries, drownings, car wrecks, illness, all of these have taught me a little more of about the way we need to care for ourselves and how to handle emeregencies.
1	When I had recurrent pregnancy loss, I went in to see a specialist. This was after my third loss. I spoke with him about how I understood that 1/4 pregnancies end in miscarriage, but the way my miscarriages were occurring seemed to me to not be just due to chance. My doctor agreed and said he could tell I knew what I was talking about.
-1	When trying out a new diet, I had to be conscious of how many calories I was consuming, so I made notes and decided which foods I could have and which ones I needed to avoid.
1	I had a class on basic health in college. I passed the class and got a reasonable grade. All of my exams and projects for that class turned out well
1	When my dad's toes recently started turning black, I told dad that he either had poor circulation or his toes were dying of gangrene. He had gangrene and had to have his leg amputated.
-1	Each of my children have had the chicken pox. In addition, I was able to care for them with regards to their illness as well as prevent others from catching the chicken pox.
-1	Oh there hasn't been many experiences of my life where I know something about health or medical issues. And yeah are you talking about specifics but then after that I can't really go into it because I just don't know anymore about it.
1	I have a particular medical need that required me to get a medication that is only prescribed upon being asked for it.  I knew all the reasons why I needed it and the doctor gave it to me no problem.
1	I really have not had to use it much. I have not gone to the hospital for any reason, except for when I fell and hit my head skiing. There I was feeling dizzy the day after, and wanted to get checked out by the doctor
-1	I got a steroid injection and on the way home started having itching and hives. I knew I was having an allergic reaction 
1	my sister fainted one morning and i knew it was likely due to her low blood sugar - i had her drink juice and she felt better
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues mostly revolves around being able to look up information on various conditions or reading information being given by doctors.  I take no prescriptions, have not had any major illnesses nor been significantly injured. 
1	I have never had a serious health issue, so I do not have an answer for this question.  In general I exercise and eat well and have been healthy so far.
-1	When I had back surgery 6 years ago I knew exactly what the surgeon needed to do. I had a herniated disc so it required and open discectomy and I also had to have a laminectomy. Laminectomy is basically the shaving of laminae which is on the anterior portion of the spine. The outcome was great and I had all the faith in the world with my doctor. 
-1	When having to fill out forms and forms for check up when i broke my femur.  That is most of the extent of medical issues i have had.
-1	My knowledge is very basic when it comes to health of medical issues. However, when I was in the Marine Corps I took several classes on combat life saver. This includes information on things such as cuts and bruising. Also gun shot wounds and shrapnel and tourniqets. Other than this, I know when I should go the the doctor and when I should just go to the store and buy some over the counter drugs to help get rid of my ailments. 
1	I was playing basketball and one of my teammates sprained his ankle. I immediately explained to him how to properly take care of his ankle for the next 48 hours.
1	I have a rare disease. I went misdiagnosed for 3 years by many doctors in my state. Finally I flew to Mayo Clinic, and they diagnosed and treated me. So I dont trust local doctors as much now
-1	One time my wife was complaining about a burning sensation in her chest. She was very concerned and we went to the doctor I told her before we got there it was probably heartburn. It turned out she did, in fact, have heartburn.
1	I self diagnosed a pain in my knee as a bone spur. Upon visiting the doctor I explained the symptoms I was having and what pain I was going through and what I thought the issue was. The doctor took some x-rays and decided I was correct.  
1	I was at work and a coworker of mine was about to faint, I knew exactly what to do, so I helped him out
1	I was once an employee of an ophthalmologist. Working in the medical field gave me a good knowledge of things. You see patients a day and hear there stories. 
1	When I went to the chiropractor and he helped me understand how a lot of things worked and really explained a lot of medical terminology to me.
1	A few months ago, I had to go to the doctor's office for an MRI. While waiting, they gave me a pre-screening evaluation of my medical history and family medical history. On the paper included many medical terms and illnesses that I was familiar with due to the courses I had taken in college. I was able to complete the form without asking any questions.
1	my grandmother recently had surgery and was released from the hospital after healing with no apparently complications. however, upon returning home she began experiencing sweating and very mean behaviors which is completely unlike her. I immediately called her doctor and said I believed her to have a possible UTI. The dr said to bring her in to be checked - sure enough she had a UTI. which is a common occurrence after surgery in elderly people however many people do not know the signs to look for
1	The only thing I can think of is that it's very easy for me to control my own weight.  I pretty much know how much I should be eating without counting calories or fat or anything.  I just naturally know how to keep myself at a healthy weight.
-1	I was told that I had anxiety and I knew exactly what that meant and what the side effects of the medication could be
1	An instance when I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues is when I took a look at a rash on my wife's arm, and correctly diagnosed the cause prior to visiting the doctor. I knew that it was a chemical based reaction, due to prior experience and research when something similar happened to me in the past.
-1	I was recently at the doctor and had been very fatigued and could not breath threw my nose. I looked up my symptoms and found I most likely had a sinus infection. I went to the doctor and they said they will tell me exactly what was wrong, and low and behold it was a sinus infection.
1	After I had surgery there was a risk that was infected, I noticed the swelling and redness and went to the ER.  They saw the risk and prescribed antibiotics to ensure there was no infection.  After receiving the antibiotics I knew to complete the whole course even if the infection went away.
1	When my grandpa had terminal cancer, I was able to figure out how much time he had left and that it was terminal.  that allowed me to enjoy what time I had left with him and prepare myself for when he died.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I was able to effectively calculate the caloric intake of my daily meals. Although this is not the most knowledgeable thing to know, I feel that it is important that I am able to calculate calories in order to watch my diet and not overeat as a result of being unable to calculate what my diet should be like on a daily basis. 
-1	When I was pregnant, I read a lot about the pregnancy and what to expect. With this knowledge I was able to understand what my body was going through and to react according to what my body was telling me.
1	I had a pain in my right side that felt like what I knew to be appendicitis. I went to my pcp and she agreed that it could be. After imaging tests, it turned out to not be appendicitis but the symptoms matched and only imaging could show the difference.
1	Well, one time my little brother began having a panic attack; basically, hyperventilating, trouble breathing, shocked eyes/body language.. using what I learned about those types of attacks, I did what I could to calm him down.
1	My father-in-law, recently had surgery to remove his thyroid.  In conversation with my wife, she was confused, not knowing what it was.  I was able to explain what the thyroid does.
1	My grandpa died of cancer and due to previous experiences I was able to gauge more or less how much time he had according to how fast the cancer seemed to be spreading. I also knew that different cancers can spread at different rates and used the doctor's info to try to figure it all out.
1	I lived with a roommate in college and he had an intense pain in his side. He was vomiting and I knew it was his kidney and he was having a stone or problem with it. I took him to the hospital immediately.
-1	i've never really been sick, so never? i received antibiotics for strep throat last year, but that is the only time i've ever needed something more than a general checkup. 
1	I had taken medication for headaches for 7 years,  I did reading online and talked to a friend who was a medical doctor and figured out that the medication was no longer effective for me, but my doctor just kept renewing it anyway. When I talked to her about it then she re looked at my charts and officially took me off of it. 
-1	Taking a physical, and during the follow up, asking questions, the end result being giving the answers which enabled me to become more knowledgeable about health and medical issues.
1	I used to help take care of a cousin who had muscular dystrophy, and she got sick for a few days and stopped eating as much. I noticed, convinced a family member to take her to a hospital and treat her before things got any worse.
1	When I was diagnosed with epilepsy, I researched the condition; I researched the medication and potential side effects. Before I had tests done, I researched what would occur during the test.
1	When I gave birth to my son I knew what was happening to me medically, every step of the way. I had studied everything there was to know about the birth process.
-1	when my little sister had her 2nd child she had a c-section and I was elected to pack the incision when she was sent home as it was not fully healed yet. I had to go to her house every night and clean the incision and repack it with gauze. 
1	Grew up with going to the doctors with my mother very often. I sat in with her and listened and learned. I have asked questions for clarity and researched to further understand her conditions
1	Had a bad reaction to a medication, passed out and hit my head. Went to urgent care, did not have concussion symptoms. Urgent care doctor recommended a CT scan and did not give a neurological exam. Followed up with primary doctor a week later, doctor gave a neurological exam, no concussion symptoms. Recommended not to get the scan. I did not get the scan.
1	I fell and hurt my hand. It was painful and not getting better. I looked it up and found that I broke a small bone in the wrist/hand. It is not the usual wrist break because I fell with the hand underneath instead of outstretched. I went to the doctor who confirmed with an x-ray. 
1	When my father came to live with me as he was too sick to care for himself as he had COPD.  I really learned alot about hospice care, medicines, diet and the process of dying.  
1	When my kids are sick I know how to take care of them, like if they're running a temperature. I know when they need to be checked out by the pediatrician and when it's just a regular cold that they can't do anything about.
1	I had multiple concussions growing up. While playing college football I sustained my 4th concussion. As a result, I had to get multiple tests run and was told I should be done playing football. I had to read a lot about percentages that increase with multiple concussions and side effects that take a long time to show up as well as side effects that happen immediately and can be tough to recover from.
-1	well i currently work in a hoptial's warehosue and while i deliver the stuff to the floors i overheard drs and nurses talking about medical stuff and to me it is not that hard to grasp and understand
1	In the summer of 2015 I was diagnosed with optic neuritis and monitored for MS.  Many tests and specialists later I was eventually diagnosed with RA instead.  I am still attempting to find a good medication combo (and still being monitored for MS), therefore doctor appointments and trips to the pharmacy are a weekly occurrence.
-1	health is important. it should start with you making sure you are eating the right things and make sure all medication is being taken properly. the doctor is next by making sure he is all about you and wants the best for you without you being a number but a person with feelings and also having follow up in the right amount time for refills and any concerns one would have 
1	After my last pregnancy, I noticed that I felt sluggish, tired & not able to lose weight. After doing some research at home, I found that I could possible have a Thyroid disorder. I followed up with my PCP & he ran the proper blood tests, that in fact showed that I had Hypothyroidism.
1	I was recently diagnosed with high blood pressure, so I came home and spent time researching it and finding out what I needed to do and was able to implement those changes and actions. 
1	I once volunteered as an EMT for my local rescue squad. I often have to treat patients and take their blood pressure. The normal for systolic and diastolic pressure is 120/80, but many patients have higher or lower blood pressure. It is also important to ask about their medical history, since they may have had a past disease leading to these results.
1	When my father had diabetes 2 and I sat him down when we got home and tried to explain some of the things he didn't understand he wondered why I knew so much and I told him I suspected he may have diabetes so I went and researched the subject a lot before the doctors visit.  After a couple hours he felt more comfortable dealing with his diabetes.
-1	When taking prescription medication you have to administer it yourself. You have to carefully following the instructions about how many pills to take. It also shows you things to avoid like alcohol. You need to be very careful when doing this because there might be side effects from the medication. 
1	At a music festival, a friend of mine suddenly fell to the ground and started convulsing, which I had never seen him do before. I had no idea what was going on but immediately thought it might be an allergic reaction. I started yelling for an EpiPen which was luckily pro-offered by someone and administered, stopping the issue quickly. It turned out he had a bee allergy that he was unaware of.
1	I don't have any personal or firsthand experience, but I remember hearing a friend talk about how carpal tunnel affects people and, having done some reading online about it in the past, I corrected them on how it really affects the body.
1	I was having serious gastrointestinal issues for many years and all the doctors were telling me to just take nausea medication and weren't trying to help me figure out the problem. I told them I wanted to do blood tests and kept at it until someone took me seriously
-1	All I know is what I have and have learned by doing research on it.  My bones are thinning so I researched on the medicines that help stop the process.  I looked it up and asked doctor questions whether it can be taken with other medicines and how long.  
-1	I had had some bad chest pains and thought I was having a heart attack it hurt so bad. I went to the ER and they did all the tests to check for heart attack and everything came back fine. They would not tell me what was wrong with me other than I didnt have heart problems. I got online and started googling my symptoms and realized that I had costocondritis which I had never heard of. So i basically diagnosed myself with it and did what everyone in forums had tried for theirs and eventually it got better and went away. 
-1	I have the knowledge base because I am a nurse but I am not that good at math. The percentages are throwing me off and therefore I am not doing well. I do know a lot of the medical conditions. 
1	I have been fortunate enough not to have any health issues in my life.  I have experience working for an insurance company that processes health claims.
-1	There was a time where I had to take care of myself and by using my skills I was able to get things done the right way
-1	When I had endometriosis and fibroids so bad it caused me to have a hysterectomy at a younger age. I had to go to several doctors to finally find one that was willing to do the surgery. Several refused to do the surgery because I was younger and not married yet. They thought I would change my mind on wanting children even though I knew have endometriosis as bad as I did was a health risk
1	"I went to an urgent care with the same symptoms as my husband.  My husband was seen by one doctor, prescribed an antibiotic, and felt better within 24 hours.  I was seen by a different doctor, told I had a virus, and sent home with no medication.  I continued to worsen as my husband got better.  I sought out a second opinion and was able to convince the doctor that something more was wrong than just a virus.  I was reluctantly given a chest x-ray and found that my ""virus"" had manifested to pneumonia."
1	I had an inflammatory issue which cause my skin to turn very red.  I believed it was an immune response to foods so while I took a steroid, I also researched and found an anti-inflammatory diet which brought my skin back to normal.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues was when I studying to take my medical and billing examination.
-1	I started having chronic health issues 20 years ago. I tried to seek help from my doctor, and also a university medical center, but was given no explanation for my symptoms. I researched my own symptoms online, and after much research was able to figure out a little of what was going on with me. I brought this information to an out of town doctor, who was able to connect the dots for me in some areas. So, doing my own research helped me to at least get a medical professional to take me seriously.
-1	I can't answer this question accurately, because I have no knowledge of health issues other than the basic information about diseases and other things.
1	My mother who had a history of hypertension and, recent stent placement in a renal artery, was noted to have several syncopal episodes.  Her blood pressure meds had not been changed since her renal artery stenting and I suspected her meds needed to be lowered due to increased renal blood flow/improved blood pressure control.  I contacted her internist office and they agreed.
1	After a bout of iritis I took a blood test.  They were looking for the genetic marker for ankylosing spondilitis and found it.  The doctor called me and said I had a 90% chance of having the disease.  I then looked up this information online and found that that's not what the results meant.  90% of people who have ankylosing spondilitis have the genetic market I have, but that's very different from my having it meaning I have a 90% chance of having the disease.
-1	An experience in my life that made me demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was out of shape and I would breathe very heavily after doing an activity. I read on the subject to gain more knowledge and try to prevent it from happening again. I had to get in shape.
1	When my son was young he got in a wreck on his bike.  He was wearing a helmet and hit his head.  We still watched my on the next couple of days and he should signs that he had a concussion.  He was having headaches and dizziness.  I took him to the doctor and sure enough he had one.
1	When I was pregnant and had low iron I needed to receive 5 iron infusions so I needed to learn about the iron infusions and the side effects, etc. Also I have a blood clotting disorder so while I was pregnant I needed to learn about the precautions that would need to be taken in order to have a safe birth.
1	I frequently get messages on facebook from old friends and family members asking me about health related issues, and they usually thank me for the help, even for things as simple as helping them find a local doctor and getting the right number to call for access to help.
-1	I favor students and potential employees who came across the profession through life experience: had a sick family member who received occupational therapy ... Best Advice: I think one of the biggest tips for this question is honesty  do not try to expand or exaggerate your experience as I know that you are new to the field.
1	I understand how to take my own blood pressure, and what the diastolic and systolic pressure rates mean, so I know understand what the results are when a nurse takes myu blood pressure.
1	When I was having rapid heart rate when around others, I was able to research and find out that I need a beta blocker. I asked my doctor if it was okay and he went ahead and assigned me the beta blocker.
1	I got sick with pneumonia once, and was given lots of things to read about how I could have contracted it. I was able to read and understand them all, and throw them all out because none of them fit.
-1	I feel like I have a good feeling over my body. When I get sick my wife always pushes me to go seek medical help. At this point I'm able to tell here exactly how I feel and if I should seek medical attention or not. I think it's important to know your body 
1	I experienced swollen tonsils with white pus, went to the doctor and asked for a strep test because of my familiarity with the illness and likely exposure. She agreed, I tested positive, and she prescribed 10 days of antibiotics. I took the pill 2x/day as prescribed until I was out of medicine.
1	My husband wasn't feeling well, and his medboard (military sick call) told him to just go home and sleep. However, I knew with his symptoms, (fever, sore throat, white spots on throat and tonsils), that he most likely had strep throat and needed antibiotics. He went back to see another doctor, and they diagnosed him with the strep.
-1	I've had a few surgeries and  treatments in my life and have seen many doctors in different cities, and I have done a lot of research about my medical issues that helped me a lot. I have also gone to school to be a certified CNA and have worked in the medical field for over 14 years. I'm no expert my any means , but I do know certain things.
1	I have many times pulled muscles that I've self-treated using RICE. I have also self-diagnosed colds vs allergies. I've also modified my diet to improve my slightly high cholesterol. 
1	As a med tech i received my diabetes speciality which enabled me to administer the stick test for diabetes and administer insulin using a sliding scale.
-1	We took a health subject at school, and did a very good research task on health issues. It was very successful.
1	I started having weird chronic adult acne in my mid 20s.  I figured something was wrong because no one in my family have this issue, and acne in general is not normal for someone in their 20s.  I went to my primary care physician who referred me to a specialist.  The specialist told me everything is normal, and prescribed a strong acne cream which damaged my skin, but also helped with the acne.  The specialist ignored all my concerns of me having abnormal adult acne to begin with, saying she only dealt with the skin - possible bad digestion or hormonal issues, all of which may cause acne, are not her business.  I spend the next few years dealing with the acne and being told by my PCP that maybe it's just normal for me.  I got sick and fed up with this, went to a holistic hippie doctor, who said I had issues with digestion, and prescribed a change of diet and probiotics.  With the hippie doctor's help and a change in my eating habits/supplements, I no longer have acne.
1	There has been instances of cancer, heart disease, diabetes, thyroid issues, and hormonal imbalances in my family. I have been around it all my life. It would be difficult to keep up at a family dinner without being able to understand or even speak up for yourself.
1	I have severe acid reflux.  I have taken several medicine to no avail and now I am asking for certain test to see if there is an underlying issue.  
1	A couple of years ago, I stepped off the front porch of my new home and into a hole that was covered in leaves.  It was instant blinding pain for a few seconds, then I crawled into my house.  My ankle was huge and I couldn't put any pressure on it.  Everyone insisted that I go to the ER, but I looked up how to test fractured/broken vs. sprained ankles.  Canada actually had a great write up on it, apparently ER visits due to sprained ankles seriously hurt their socialized medicine policy due to costs.  I did their tests, and correctly diagnosed my sprained ankle then treated it accordingly.
-1	When I was younger and my mom was sick. I did a lot of reading and research because I wanted to make sure my mom was going to be ok. I took care of my mom knew what medicine she needed. I knew when she needed it and when she had to go to the hospital I knew what to tell the doctors and nurses.
1	i went the doctor once because i was having some problems. i had googled my symptoms and done some research to see what might be going on. the doctor diagnosed me with the same thing that i had suspected i had, so i felt like i had done a good job looking into it myself
1	I can't say that I've had a significant experience that would demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have a general knowledge and attempt to get some regular exercise, but always ask relevant professionals because it's better to understand what I don't know than to not know and think I know.
1	A few years ago, I found out my dad had diabetes. Now we know more about it and my sister and I are more careful with our health so that we don't get it in the future.
1	I had a c section and a few weeks later after a long car ride my right leg was in a great deal of pain. It turned purple and swelled up. I went to the ER and said I had a blood clot and I was right.
-1	When my son was chocking I had to give him the hem lick maneuver.It was the scariest thing ever. Thankfully, it worked and the piece of hot dog dislodged from his throat. 
1	I don't have any extensive training or education on health or medical issue. My experience is very limited to just what I learn on the internet and from my doctor. Basic diagnosis of a typical cold, fever, flu are very simple to figure out. Any abnormal pain in the body will require a doctor visit. If it's just something I am not familiar with, a visit to the doctor will usually answer the question.
1	I had to take care of my mom when she had meningitis and was able to navigate the different specialists and tests she needed
1	My wife is a nurse so I often consult her if I feel like I'm in need of medical attention. I have seasonal allergies so it's not uncommon to have sore throats, runny noses, and coughing at various times of the year. Occasionally, those symptoms are very severe. In the fall, I have a severe cough that was not going away and she thought that it was just allergies. I couldn't take it anymore and felt that it was probably worse and went to the doctors - it was bronchitis.
1	When my mother in law had a heart attack, one of the first things I did was make sure she had taken some aspirin. I know that, because it's a blood thinner, aspirin can help with heart attacks and improve people's chances.
1	I had a swollen lymph node a while back that was not tender to the touch, and I had no other disease like symptoms.  the doctor thought it was best to remove the lymph node and biopsy it for lymphoma.  the results were negative.
1	I had some issues with anxiety attacks after eating. I realized that these were happening when I would eat a lot of carbs. It led me to learn about hypoglycemia and the effects of low blood sugar on the adrenal system
1	During my last visit to the PCP's office, I was asked to fill out a new form of medical history. I found that most of the terms showing on the form seemed to be familiar. I did not have any troubles to complete the form. This was very different from the first time when I was asked to do such a thing.
-1	Before I thought about having my last surgery I read online and in medical journals about the pro and cons of the procedure before having it done. I wanted to know the facts for myself before making that decision.
1	I have a wife with severe COPD and a heart condition that developed while she was in the hospital for her breathing.  I spent many hours talking with the nurses and the doctors as well as on line researching her conditon.  I was able to visit with her for 12 hours a more a day while she was in the hospital and monitor the care she was given.  A few times my research paid off such as the time they wanted to clean her room and I had to ask them to not use areosal due to her COPD and the fact that the areosol triggered it.
1	I saw the history of weight gain within my family, and also saw that I was starting to gain weight. I decided that while I had not gained a significant amount of weight yet, and while my schedule best allowed for it in the stage of life that I was in (i.e., I had a lot of free time), I wanted to take matters into my own hands and gain control of my weight before it became harder to do so. I exercised and took better care in terms of watching what I ate, and was able to gain control over my weight.
1	My mother was very sick most of my childhood, so I picked information here and there from her pamphlets and also her doctors. Also, in college I was in a Physician Assistant program where I started to learn a lot about health and medical issues. To get into that program, I had to shadow a doctor or PA for 500 hours, so I also absorbed a lot of information from there. 
-1	Whenever I think about experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues, I think about my grandpa having a heart attack. I remember sitting in the living room of my grandparents house with my grandpa and grandma and then all of a sudden my grandpa started rubbing his chest and saying that he had a tight pain and I continued asking him questions and trying to figure out exactly what it was that was wrong with him and if he needed to be taken to the hospital and eventually, I told him that we needed to go because he was having a heart attack and it turned out that he had.
1	In my early 30s I got serious about taking care of myself. I started going to the gym consistently. I started building muscle, my cardiovascular fitness improved, I could do more activities without getting tired and stopped having dizzy spells. I started reading diet-related articles, reading nutritional labels and cutting out saturated fat and excessive sugar, and increasing protein intake. I replaced fat with muscle and my energy increased.
1	My husband and I are currently trying to get pregnant. We tried a new method called invocell. During the process, 12 eggs were able to be retrieved and inseminated. At my age, 80-90% of those should have become embryos. Unfortunately, only one did and it did not implant. This means that something is wrong with my body that caused so little of those to become embryos.
1	One night about three months after I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes, I took 20 units of Humalog (short acting insulin) instead of 20 units of Lantus (long acting insulin) before bedtime. My boyfriend got upset and called 911. I ended up in the hospital for three hours having my blood sugar tested every half an hour, and paid $700 for the privilege. The next time I took the wrong kind of insulin at night, I did the math, made the appropriate amount of toast, slathered it with honey, and didn't tell the boyfriend.
1	When my sister was very young she choked on a marble. I had my little brother start the Heimlich maneuver right away while I called 911.
-1	A time when my cousin was worried that he might have a serious health issue. I told him to calm down and to stop reading things online and to just go to the doctor.
-1	I have an auto-immune disease and I researched to learn what to do, eat and which medication would make me feel my best. I also spoke to others with the disease and got input from them as well. I also found a doctor who helped me understand my disease better. 
1	I was prescribed a steroid and told the doctor I would not take it as it can effect the pressure in the eye and increase the chances of getting glaucoma. I have glaucoma and knew that taking steroids was an issue. 
1	I try to stick to the healthy diet and exercise a couple of times a week to be healthy. So i don't really have a lot of experience of health issues.
1	When I delivered my third child, I went into the hospital knowing exactly what to expect. I was prepared to fill out all the paperwork given to me, had all my medications noted, and had a very seamless delivery since I had been through it twice before. I was even allowed to leave after one night instead of the usual 2-3 night stay since I knew what to do. 
1	Started eating diced garlic for a cold about 17 years ago and...I haven't had a cold, flu, sore throat or any similar illness since then. There are of lot of studies that back up the use of garlic as an anti-viral, anti-bacterial, anti-fungal medicine. Dice 2 cloves finely, let it sit for 20 minutes, eat with some peanut butter or other fat. If you already have a cold repeat for 3 or 4 days. If you're not ill do it occasionally anyway to boost your immune system.
1	I was seriously injured when I was 24. I subsequently had to go through many tests and medical procedures which has given me much higher than average knowledge of doctors and medical procedures. I have an artificial disc in my back, arthritis in the facet joints, scarring on the nerves, and other problems that I still suffer with due to this injury and it has been over 16 years. 
1	I fell on my right hand one night and heard a pop. I knew I broke a bone in my hand - not just a sprain or minor injury - because my finger was unable to bend without pain and my knuckle was misplaced.
1	"I was on vacation with friends, and my friend's teenage daughter got sick with a high fever. We were in a third world country, and the resort's on staff ""doctor"" looked very young and unprofessional (she was wearing jeans). The doctor was going to give her a shot. I stopped her and knew enough to ask first exactly what was in the needle. Thankfully I asked, because the doctor actually could not answer the question! She said it was ""something like aspirin"". I advised my friend not to allow the shot to be given. Instead, we brought her daughter back to our room and gave her Tylenol and gatorade, which we purchased from the gift shop. Her daughter was fine by the next day."
1	One time I demonstrated knowledge of health issues by helping care for my cousin who has diabetes. I researched and asked questions, and learned where her blood sugar levels should be and what she could eat and couldn't eat at certain times and helped her measure her blood sugar.
1	I am able to help my mother manage her blood sugar by testing it after a meal and ensuring that it is less than 180 mg/dl
1	When I started having pain in my elbow and forearm, I did some research and discovered it was possible I had cubital tunnel syndrome.  When I went to the doctor, they confirmed this diagnosis.
1	When I recently went to the doctor for mild depression, the doctor discussed several different treatment options with me.  I was already familiar with the different types of medications used to treat depression which helped me to make a decision with the help of my doctor.
-1	Taking care of my mother's medical issues. She had lung cancer and never smoked a day in her life. Six long years and over 125 chemo treatments. spent a lot of time in doctors offices.
-1	i am experienced in the knowledge of what you have presented me with to answer the questions that you are asking me. I have heard of these things or saw them in real life.
1	My friend was having trouble breathing and I've had experiences with a family member that had panic attacks. I told him that what he was experiencing was likely a panic attack and to calm down and breath.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues happened when I discovered that I was allergic to barley. After consulting medical sources, I was able to communicate to food servers that I needed gluten free meals that did not come in contact with cross-contaminated foods containing wheat or rye.
-1	When I was pregnant with my daughter. I was given instruction to perform the test at home and needed to calculate my intake of sugar and carbohydrates. I was able to do it my self and I was able to understand everything
1	I had a nodule on my thyroid that I was concerned about. My daughter was diagnosed with thyroid cancer at 15, so I already knew a lot about the disease. It helped me tremendously because I knew exactly what to expect, as well as general information about thyroid cancer, thyroid disorders, goiter, etc. I knew that the lump was not normal, and I also knew that I should have a biopsy just to make sure.
1	I recently had to tape off of some medication. First by taking half my dose for the first 7 days, then  1/4 of my dosage for the next 7 days. After the first 7 days I also started my new medication. I was able to tape off the old meds and begin the new meds exactly as prescribed. 
1	First, I have a degree in Psychology and i'm a certified Professional Educator in the state of Florida with certifications in Biology and General Science. Second, my family members and I have had complex health issues in the past. For me, my health concerns have increased in the past ten years as i've aged and i've had to have both corrective and emergency procedures performed on me.
1	I went and got a flu shot to lessen the chance of getting the flu, and also lessen the symptoms if I did get the flu. It's important for everyone to get vaccinated, especially to protect those who can't.
-1	My daughter has a hemagioma that was rupturing, I knew how to stop the bleeding as well as preventing rupturing again. I made sure I knew all about this red blood filled birthmark.
-1	When my dad was having stomach pains. I told him what medicines to take and what to drink to help calm the pain.
-1	My daughters both got super high fevers. Once the fevers went past 100.4 I started giving them fever reducers. If the fever lasted more that a couple days or they developed other symptoms I took them to the dr right away. My 18 month old got a Hugh fever with no other symptoms. I did research after the drs sent us home with no answers. I concluded she had a virus call roseolla and I was correct. 
1	A partner I had at the time was starting to show signs of an Addisonian crisis (she was diagnosed years before with Addison's disease), and was starting to become delirious. I injected her emergency medication into her thigh and we went to hospital. 
1	there Was a time that I caught a food borne illness and was throwing up every five minutes for 5 hours. I was so pale and so dehydrated that I knew I had to go to the hospital. I had my husband drive me to the hospital so they could give me nausea medication and rehydrate me. They said that if I hadnt shown up to the hospital there would have been dangerous being so dehydrated.
1	I used the best statistical anaylsis I could to determine the answers to the questions.  I really don't know how any medical knowledge would help in this scenario because these were all math problems.
1	My daugther had a recent bone tumor found in her fractured pinky. She was to have surgery by taking a bit of bone from her elbow to replace the weakened bone in her pinky which would also be filed down to remove the tumor part.
1	after a while of taking various medications, i did research on each one so that i could gain knowledge on whether or not i needed to keep taking each one, or whether i could lower the dosage. i used this knowledge to have an indepth conversation about the medications with my primary care physician on the next visit.
1	I've had 2 children delivered vaginally via induction and had stitches afterward. I take medication for depression and anxiety and hypothyroidism. One time I cut my leg open and had to get 15 staples to close it.
1	When my mother was taken to ER and eventually died, I was asked after unsuccessful surgery (stroke to the bowels) if I wanted life support and I was smart enough to know that you cant live without bowels and I said no.
-1	I was having sever pain in my esophagus and was unable to swallow food. The meds my PCP gave me caused an allergic reaction and I went to the ER.
1	Once when I was visiting my father he began to have numbness in his extremities and moderate chest pain. He believed it was just heartburn, but I convinced him to go to the doctor and he did in fact have a mild heart attack. From that point on I was instrumental in maintaining his cardiovascular health by helping him maintain a diet and exercise. He is now much more conscious of his health and willing to consult a medical professional about any questions he may have concerning his (or any immediate family/friends) overall wellbeing. So, by demonstrating applied knowledge concerning heart health I have effectively prolonged my father's life and very likely those of the people he spends his time with.
1	I know when i catch cold, what I need to take and what to do. I do not need to go to see a doctor while I had a fever.
1	When someone had heat stroke, I ran to them and figured out what was the cause. I didn't necessarily save their life but it definitely helped knowing what it was. 
-1	When I was 24 years old, I went to the doctor to get my yearly physical exam.  Up to that point, I had been having them for 6 years without any issues but this time, the doctor called me the following week to tell me that I had an irregular pap smear and that the pap had shown that I had precancerous cells.  Because I had taken anatomy for 3 years and I was pretty enlightened on how the different type of cells all line up in  woman's reproductive parts, I instantly knew that it was serious.  I did not complain or argue when he got me into a specialist for the following week.  The specialist advised that he had to do a LEEP which again, I was familiar with so I had some comfort only because I knew what the process entailed.
-1	I have very little knowledge of medical issues. I am parent of two kids so I have had to use the little knowledge i have to take temperatures, treat fevers, upset stomachs and other ailments. My knowledge of head aches, which i have often has helped me with my kids in knowing what type of head ache they might be having and what could be causing it, whether it be dehydration or sinuses.
1	I have hidradentitis and once on a weekend a nodule swelled up to the size of a soft ball. I had to  go to an urgent care and while they were not educated in my condition I was able to coach them on the normal course of treatment.
1	These examples shown in the survey were simply mathematical equations. Someone who has no experience with health and medical issues would be able to figure these out.
1	Not to long ago my mother in law was diagnosed with cancer.  She had to have surgery, and then some chemotherapy to make sure everything was good.  My own mother spent two and a half years doing chemotherapy.  She was diagnosed with stage 4 metastatic bone cancer.  I was one of her primary care givers while she was going through the chemo, and her eventual passing.  I was able to talk with my mother in law about chemo and the possible side effects.
-1	I had pains in my chest in the heart area so I went to the clinic and they said it was because I was very overweight. I was actually 250 lbs-80 lbs overweight. I was very scared and asked them to check for blood clots around the heart. They put me on high blood pressure medication and told me to lose weight. The chest pains subsided but I still have a lot of weight to lose.
1	When I had an upper GI endoscopy and talked to the doctor about it after we went through all the biopsies he took and the pictures from inside my stomach I actually understood and he was impressed!
1	I am the father of six children, and have been in the military for 14 years. Constant training from the military as well as the plethora of issues that having that many children have has made me quite well versed in medical issues.
1	I taught health Education 101 at the collegiate level and have an MPH. I know the basics of health and regularly work with doctors and nurses in my current profession as an emergency response specialist
-1	A time I can think about that demonstrated my knowledge about a health issue is when I was diagnosed with high blood pressure. After I was diagnosed with high blood pressure, I went home to do some research on things needed to lower my blood pressure other than medication. At the time, a doctor I had did not tell me to make any lifestyle changes, instead just put me on medication which had me sleepy all of the time. A few months in, I was taking my medication and came to the doctor and got it checked and it was normal. The doctor asked if I was consistently taking my medication and I also explained that I was also making healthier lifestyle changes in which he was very surprised.
1	I once had to have my liver enzymes tested. I was told that it needed to be at a certain level before I could be sure that I did not have chronic Hepatitis. I was able to follow-up with the doctor and get my test results, read them myself to know that I did not need to schedule a follow-up visit.
1	A few years ago I got kicked in the kidney in a soccer game and it was bruised. I knew that rest and inactivity would help the situation, so that's what I did. The body is made to heal itself in most cases. 
1	I had been experiencing pain that some doctors told me was in my head. I had done research and was fairly certain it was a certain condition. I finally got a doctor to listen to me and they confirmed my thoughts.
1	I don't really have any experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge.   Maybe just trying to help my fiance lose weight and lower his cholesterol and blood pressure for his annual checkup. In six months I really helped him turn things around by changing his diet. 
1	I studied a lot of science while I was in college. I took a lot of corse and I'm familiar with many of the terminology.
1	My son was broken out in a terrible rash that ended up getting infected.  I told my wife that we needed to get him to a doctor immediately because I had had infections before and his skin looked like mine.
1	I was diagnosed with PCOS at age 18, so I know a lot about insulin resistance, hormonal issues, and blood sugar as I actively work to prevent myself from developing diabetes. I also worked as a receptionist at my endocrinologist's office for a year.
1	The other day at work my coworkers and I were discussing the flu because a lot of people thought they had contracted it. I had done some reading on the flu, knew symptoms, how long it should last, etc. but many of my coworkers did not. They claimed to have gotten the flu, when in reality they just contracted some sort of virus that had similar symptoms to the flu.
1	I can always google what I need but going into the doctors or having a checkup and having them tell me my numbers for blood pressure and heart rate I can tell that those numbers are good for me or not. I keep an eye on my blood pressure and have actively worked to improve it over the years.
1	the birth of my 3rd and 4th kids. from my previous experience and research i knew what was necessary and what was dr convienance
-1	I am a massage therapist.  Many times of the years clients have asked advice on nutrition, exercise, pain management and I have helped them work through their issues.  It is surprising how many people are not self-aware. 
-1	WHEN I FOUND OUT I HAD TWO CYST IN MY OVARIES, I FELT SCARED BUT WHEN I GOT ALL THE INFORMATION THAT I NEEDED AND WAS VERY INFORMED I FELT GOOD ABOUT IT. 
1	When I found out that my daughter had asthma, I made sure to find out everything I could. That knowledge helped me when she was wheezing. 
1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes I was already fairly knowledgeable about how to manage symptoms because of literature and websites I had read previously. Knowing that diet and exercise were the key components to managing diabetes helped me stay relatively healthy.
1	Every quarter I teach a section on mental health. We cover underlying causes of psychological disorders, both biological and environmental, as well as symptoms and treatment.
1	I have correctly self-diagnosed certain conditions I have had or still have such as an hernia and blefaritis to name a few. I took a nutrition course at the University that completely open my eyes about healthy eating and has helped become the health conscious person  that  I am today. I believe that nutrition course should be mandatory starting at middle school at least.
1	I visited a doctor at my college campus a few years ago. She told me I needed to diet, and asked me what I was eating. I had come to a realization that I had been eating too much fast food. When the doctor told me about a diet plan, I asked questions, and she seemed of the opinion that I knew what I needed to do. I follow much of her advice, and began losing weight in the first week.
1	About one and a half years ago, I visited the emergency room due to pain in my lungs while breathing. The staff figured out that I had pulmonary embolisms and a blood clot in my heart. I was given a lot of information and I was able to understand most of it without too much struggle.
1	When I broke a bone in my foot my blood pressure readings were high.  Doctors and staff tried to put me on blood pressure medications.  I waited until after my injury was healed and until after I was able to start jogging again.  My blood pressure readings went down, and I successfully avoid the blood pressure medications.
-1	My grandpa had merca in his blood due to diabetic sores he had on hes feet. He was in the hospital for along time and even had to get some of his toes cut off due to this issue. 
-1	When I was in Junior High, my mom was diagnosed with breast cancer. This is when I really started doing research to better understand what she was going through. I now perform breast exams on myself a few times a month.
-1	My daughter had the flu to where she was hospitalized a month ago and the she got the flu shot and then a week ago she got the flu again.  So that really made think about what is really effective when it comes to prevention of things
-1	There was many times that i had certain symptoms and i would read in books or study online about the possible ailments. I usually figured out the specific illness myself even before the doctor could.
1	After each of three babies, it was important to bring them to their many well baby check-ups. After my middle child experienced some difficulty with weight gain (he was gaining weight but not at the amount expected), I was on alert for the same issue with my third child. Indeed, it happened to him too, even though he did not have the gastric reflux issue that my middle child had had. By being on alert for it, I knew to take it seriously when the doctor pointed out the weight issue, even before the doctor was seeing it as much of a problem. 
-1	Education and training. I've worked in a hospital, not directly with patients but we are thoroughly informed and trained on basic medical courses.
1	"A few years ago, I was experiencing extreme pain in my left testicle and found a lump on the back of it, which I know isn't an indicator of testicular cancer. I looked up problems with the epididymis and found, unsurprisingly, that there is a condition called epididymitis, and I knew right away that ""-itis"" means that something is inflamed, so I knew from the name that I was experiencing an inflammation of some kind. I went to the doctor who confirmed the diagnosis and gave me an antibiotic. After my first time taking the medication, I recognized that I was having an allergic reaction and took Benedryl to help slow it down until I could get ahold of a doctor, and I managed to get through the situation without needing to go to a hospital or back to the doctor's office."
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my mother was complaining one night of having weird visual hallucinations of small bright lights. I took her blood pressure because she has a history of high blood pressure and it was about 170 systolic. I was concerned because her baseline systolic was around 130 on medication. Because of my knowledge, I was concerned that she may be at risk for stroke and her blood pressure was very high. I retook her blood pressure because if you get an abnormal reading, you should always recheck under the same circumstance. She had a headache also, so after rechecking her blood pressure was still around 170 systolic. I told her that we need to go to the ER because I was concerned about how high her BP is and her risk of stroke. She also smokes cigarettes, so her risk is increased. Her symptoms could have been dangerous and the abnormal visual hallucinations could have been aura for an oncoming migraine, but I didn't want to take any chances. I took her to the ER. She ended up being fine. 
1	One time I was discussing an abnormal looking mole on my friend's arm.  He was concerned it might be melanoma, and I told him about the ABCDEs of melanoma.  I told him he should definitely have it checked out because it exhibited some of these signs.
-1	The heart doctor's P.A. said that I seemed to know a lot about heart issues after I asked several questions related to a condition.
1	My son recently had a high fever so high that I decided to take him to the doctor. After answering the nurses and doctors questions, he was given a prescription for an antibiotic and ibuprofen. I had to remind the nurse that I had already given him a dose of ibuprofen, so he could not have more.
1	I have been on clonazepam for years (for insomnia). Due to a mix-up, the prescription lapsed. Due to the fact that I had been on the drug for so long, my body experienced withdrawal. It was strange that I needed to hold onto the wall of the shower to take a shower. Fortunately, I have not had a similar problem. Got to the doctor asap and got the prescription re-issued. End of withdrawal, which can be scary even if you know what is going on.
1	One experience that demonstrates my knowledge is understanding terms given to me by my doctor when he was explaining my hypertension diagnosis. As I was a biology major in college, I have understanding of much of what he was saying. I also have a family history of hypertension so I know a lot of the terms as my mother was very familiar with it during her life and I heard her discuss it while she was living. 
1	My son was born 12 weeks premature and had a birth defect (sagittal craniosynostosis). During this time I learned a lot about medicine and how to interpret medical information as I needed to be able to understand it to make decisions for his care.
1	I do not have any such experience in which I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues. Only one such situation when I was able to diagnose that my friend was showing symptoms of chicken pox which was in fact right.
1	I knew something was wrong with my eye and I kept putting off getting it checked out.  I figured if i ignored it that the symptoms would go away.  I tried to put it out of my mind but couldn't silence the feelings of dread in my body.  My symptoms werent severe but something in the back of my mind told me that there was something wrong.  So, I went to the doctor and I was correct....it wasnt just a simple procedure
-1	"My twins were born at 32 weeks premature and spent weeks in the nicu. My wife and I quickly learned all the complicaed health jargon and by the time they were discharged we were deemed ""pros""  "
-1	this was hard some of it i knew but some i have never experinces before so it made it hard but i learned alot from it 
1	For a few weeks, I had pain in my side, i was pretty sure it was gallbladder related, which it was. I ended up having it taken out
-1	I recently broke my leg. The doctor has to describe the break to me and how to treat it. I understood the words he was saying the context behind the break. 
1	Very recently my mom was talking to me about her husband and how he wasn't feeling well. Not only could I carry on the conversation, but, I was also able to speculate what else may be wrong with him and knew better that he should not have been taking prednisone with ibuprofen. 
1	Both of my parents were frail and infirm for years up and until their death. I took care of them. The had an assortment of ailments and had many doctors and medications.
1	I had my appendix taken out and I was able to self diagnose what was causing my pain and I new about what was involved in the surgery.  
1	I believe I was able to effectively evaluate a time I was having a panic attack in turn because of that I knew what I needed to do to get out of the situation. I was accepting and knowledgeable that i was prone to these things and took steps to help identify when they were happening. 
-1	I had a lump in my breast and I was concerned because it felt abnormal. I called the doctor and had to describe where it was and how it felt and when I noticed it. If i hadnt known that information then the doctor wouldnt have been able to find it or tell me it was benign.
-1	It has been a long trip with that for over the year I have rarely been ill and the couple time I spend a lot of time researching what and why and can it be resolve forever
1	Well my sister has had a couple kidney transplants. The first time I knew nothing. Know I know all sorts of stuff about it so when people ask me about blood types, transplant compatibility, the process, hospitals, etc. I know quite a bit to tell them. Especially if it is about one of the hospitals it happened at. I know that building like the back of my hand.
1	I had breast cancer a lot of years ago. At least I had the sense to go to the doctor when I found the lump, I guess, but the rest was kind of all Greek to me.
1	My grandpa  fainted, he has diabetes. I tested his blood sugar and i t was really low. I gave him some orange juice and he woke and was fine.
1	I had an experience when I was pushed into getting a health screening because Im obese, but I informed the professional that i am not diabetic, i don't have high blood pressure, or high cholesterol. Although im in my late 30' and hefty, I do exercise and eat healthy a lot. After they took my vitals, they were grudgingly convinced that I do know my stuff a bit.
-1	Im not sure if anything in past would demonstrate that. The only thing i can think of is that i guessed my brother was bipolar before he was diagnosed.
-1	i had a mamogram with a false positive , it came out false twice. the third time it was good . i took a fourth mamogram and still good, so its very easy to get a false positive
1	When my wife and I recently had norovirus we were able to avoid spending money and going to the doctor or hospital. I knew that we should avoid eating for 24 hours and ride it out and then slowly start eating again. We also cleaned the house to avoid catching the virus again.
-1	since i was a kid i've had asthma. over the years of dealing with it i've learned more about it and what i should avoid (like a lot of exercise or colognes and perfumes). So if I go somewhere and i notice someone spraying cologne or perfume i know to stay away from that area for a little bit or if i'm exercising i know to take it easy and always have an inhaler with me.
1	When I was diagnosed with Fibromyalgia 20 years ago I started doing a lot of research in books and with people in general.  Doctors tried multiple medicines and I kept getting worst.  I finally started researching the medication and found that through reducing those and actually moving around more that I felt better.  Now we work on just treating major symptoms instead of everything that Fibromyalgia causes and doing exercises.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues would be a summer day with high temperatures outside. I helped hand out water and keep hydrated so people would not have health issues.
1	My son was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes at the age of 6. I was already someone who counted calories and read nutrition labels so my experience there made it easy to measure his portions and count his carbs accurately. My experience taking care of him also makes me knowledgeable in other areas of a healthy diet for our entire family.
1	I have had 10 surgeries. I am a breast cancer survivor. I am an audiologist and have worked with doctors, in hospitals, in rehabilitation centers and at the Emory Clinic in Atlanta.
-1	As a lifeguard I have some first aid training.  While dealing with water related accidents and emergencies it is often necessary to help others with small injuries and making sure that they obey basic safety in and near the water.
1	I had to speak to the doctor about my autoimmune condition. After doing research on the internet, I was able to self-diagnose my condition and identify causes of the condition. I had a good discussion with my doctor having this knowledge beforehand.
1	I had digestive issues a few years ago. I went to my general physician for treatment. Multiple sessions were unsuccessful so I asked for a referral to a specialist. I conferred with he specialist as to what the causes could be and methods of treatment. I made sure to be aware of what tests and medications were being suggested and how they would affect me. Through procedures, medication, and lifestyle changes, we were able to improve my health. 
-1	I was with a friend of mine some years ago. He suddenly vomited and began breathing very rapidly and collapsed. I knew immediately that he was having a heart attack, and began CPR as he wasn't breathing. 
-1	A few years ago, I was diagnosed with basal cell carcinoma which is a form of skin cancer. I was told that along with avoiding the sun without sun screen, I could use a prescription cream that would bring the skin cancer cells to the surface of my skin.  
1	When taking over the counter pain medication. I am allergic to a name brand prescription version of ibuprofen, knowing the generic names for this allows me to avoid medications that contain it. Being able to read medical ingredient lists.
-1	When I have a friend who is having a child ask me about symptoms and pain and I am able to understand and give her answers
1	"When my daughter was a baby she had a rash and everyone told me that I needed to take her to the DR becuase it was ""definitely"" Scarlett fever. I reseached SF and found out that It was a rash that followed a fever. My daighter did not have a fever at any point during that time. However her grandmother washed her clothes in different detergent. I was able to extrapolate that the cause was the detergent and the rash cleared up soon after we bathed her and put her in different clothes. "
1	My mother had cancer and I visited and talk with many doctors and I made many researches that help me to understand a little bit more some medical issues.
-1	In my twenties, I developed for the first time, symptoms of colitis.  I was told I would have this for the rest of my life and that only medication would keep it under control.  I began studying the different medications and reading what worked best and what didn't work for people with this condition.  This also lead me to learn about the role of probiotics in helping with gut flora which seems to help people with colitis.  I was able to bring this information to my doctor and he gave me a prescription only probiotic which has helped immensely.
1	I noticed that my son was having issues with breathing. After some determination, we found out that Abuterol seemed to help him resolve the issue.  Knowing that the medicine is typically used for asthma sufferers I knew this wasn't a situation of a cold and needs to be evaluated by a doctor.  After a consultation, it was confirmed that he indeed had Asthma.
-1	I haven't had any experience like that, but my father had open heart surgery and I wsa there to care for him after he came home from the hospital.
1	One time I ate shrimp and I started to get a rash around my mouth and had some slight swelling in my face and I pulled out some benadryl  and took that because I knew that was good for allergies.
1	Several years ago I had to have a hernia repaired. The pre-examinations were considerable, and included three different blood tests. My employer's insurance covered the procedure, and I spent a great deal of time working over the details of the forms with the HR person. Post-surgery, there were many follow-up visits, and of course more forms to file. It was well worth it but far from simple.
1	"A common situation is when a friend of mine asks for advice on dealing with a running-related injury, such as ankle or knee pain. His question usually relates to whether he should continue running in the short term, since he is highly motivated to meet his mileage goals. Since I've done that in the past and exacerbated an ankle injury that way, I usually tell him to take the day off and do ""RICE"" (Rest, Ice, Compress, Elevate) the injured area, then test it the next morning to see if the pain still persists. "
1	I was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and found that diagnosis to be a bit unbelievable. I did my own research, prior to the internet, and decided it was a bogus diagnosis based on my symptoms. I have not had any signs of rheumatoid arthritis and that diagnosis was over 20 years ago. 
-1	Everyone asks me such things. If I do not already know the answers I find them something related on line someplace. My girlfriend has a daughter who had such a question for me about depression. The kid complains of killing herself these day. She was on zolof, before that prozac. The kid is 15, and been on this shit for several years. I told her to get the kid to a real doc asap and sue the quack that put her on prozac. 
-1	I have health related work experience. I worked home health/personal care/hospice for 12 years. I have also taken some medical classes in college. 
-1	Taking care of my dad and learning about all his medicines and what they were for and how to give them to him.
-1	I was given a prescription for a medication that had a long list of health risks. I had to weight the risks of the side effects of the drugs against just putting up with the none life threatening skin condition I had. I chose to put up with my Psoriasis because the risk to my health from the drugs was far more detrimental than my actual condition.
1	I had to be knowledgeable about health issues when my dad had cancer.  We had to follow the doctors instructions after his surgery and during his rehab time.  My knowledge was demonstrated by perfectly following his post surgery instructions and his speedy recovery.
1	A few years back there was a time where I had an abnormally large lump on my lower back that constantly itched, had a pain around the lump area. Aware of what it may be a cyst of sort, I searched on the web symptoms as to what it actually could be whether or not it was one. Through a thorough search I noticed all of the symptoms were lined up with what I assumed at first and waited it out a few days since it said that it could possibly burst on its own accord and there's not much to worry about aside from going to the emergency room of it actually does burst. So when it finally did on that day I was not only relieved that it wasn't any other sort but confident in my own initial observation.
1	I was treated for depression while going through my divorce. My doctor prescribed Wellbutrin to me and I could tell it was effecting my body in a way that was not good.  After I started to feel so anxious I thought I was going to black out I decided to reduce the amount of medication I was taking without consulting  a physician because when I told her how it was making me feel, she didn't seem too concerned about it. Eventually I stopped taking it all together and feel much better. 
-1	I guess like in that last question, When I suspected I was having an ear infection come on. I had prior experience in ear infections and have somewhat experience with them. 
-1	I had gastric bypass surgery a year ago. Six months ago, my sister decided to have the surgery as well. I've been able to walk her through from beginning to end. And I had first hand knowledge of what she goes through and feels. 
-1	There was an incident where a young family member had a severe nose bleed and their parent was holding their head back. I told them they should pinch their nose and hold their head forward in order to prevent vomiting because I read an article that it was the right thing to do. 
-1	When I was pregnant with my third son. My whole pregnancy and deliver was completely wonderful and I believe it was because this was my 3rd time. I knew what to expect and what could or couldnt happen.
1	I was a biology major and I learned a bit about health and medical issues. I also went to the hospital
1	Several years ago, I was vomiting and having severe abdominal pain. It felt different than just the flu or any other common illness. I had suspected that it was appendicitis, so I went to the hospital and the doctors confirmed that it was appendicitis. 
1	When I went to the pharmacy I used one of the blood pressure monitoring machines and my blood pressure was sky high.  I went back a week later to check again and it was still high so I knew this was bad and have been treating it since.
-1	I had to take a medical/rescue class if something was going wrong on one of the movie set I was working on. The first day after the class finished I saw a woman who just had hurt her head with the truck of her car. As the knowledge was fresh in my head I knew what to do. She was bleeding so I took it seriously. I called an ambulance and I applied first aid while waiting for it.
1	My son was born hypoxic, so I learned as much as I could about children born with hypoxia and what other conditions could result from such a diagnosis. It turns out that my son's brain was damaged at the cortico-visual area, and suffers from CVI now as a result.
-1	A time in my life where I demonstrated my knowledge of health was when someone fainted during an accident. I proceed to do CPR to revive the person.
1	I am a physician, I attended medical school, completed four years of residency, and a one year fellowship. If I answered these questions incorrectly I am going to be crushed!
1	My grandmother was having chest pain and wasn't sure what was wrong. I checked her vital signs and realized all of her vitals were stable, so we administered some medication for acid reflux and she felt relief within an hour.. 
1	When I had acute bronchitis and acute sinusitis. I was sick for months and kept telling people it was that (since I get it a lot) but people doctors included, kept saying it was just a bad cold. I mean, I know myself and I knew it was bad. People at work thought I was just calling out for no reason until I brought the note from my doctor, who was going to put me into the hospital if the last of 4 antibiotics tried did not work. It finally took breathing treatment, CIPRO, and getting a swab up my nose before I finally started getting better. 
1	I have a family member that has Diabetes, and a few times he has had his sugar go too high, and I would recommend to cut back on the carbs, sugar and such, and replace them with fresh vegetables to get nutrition, and fiber while it helps to avoid sending the blood sugar higher. Specifically non-cooked, and no condiments added to it.
-1	I was given the wrong prescription dosage according to my weight. The doctor had it put on the container but I knew it did not sound right so I called in and I was correct. I had done the math according to what I already knew.
-1	Times that my kids or niece have gotten hurt and i've had to decide what to do to help them. From applying pressure to deciding if it is hospital worthy. 
1	When my dad was taken to the hospital for heart problems, I was able to interpret and translate all information that was given by the doctors
-1	I see how medicine side effects are worst than the original problem diagnosed. So if that means either better medicine needs to be created that cures only or stick with medical marijuana can't go wrong there. 
1	My daughter fell and spit her head open pretty bad.  She had blood everywhere.  I was able to locate the wound, clean it, and apply pressure.  Once she was under control we went to the hospital to be put back together
1	I used to work as an assistant in a dentist office many years ago. My primary duties included sanitizing work, but I was also able to shadow the head dentist on numerous occasions. 
1	Most if not all of my information that I get about health or medical issues I get from my doctor or my friend who is working to be a medical professional. Any questions I have in those subjects I ask them. Rarely do I get information anywhere else. I think I have moderate amount of knowledge about health and medical issues because of what they have told me. I wouldn't call myself an expert or anything close to that. I will still continue to get my information from medical professionals. All in all there's no experience I can say that shows off my knowledge. I just get a piece of it time from time.
1	My boyfriend at the time was having stomach pains.  They got worse and worse until finally I convinced him to go to the ER.  When the doctor pushed down on my boyfriend's belly and let go suddenly and my boyfriend gasped out in pain at the release, I knew immediately they were going to prep for surgery (and they did - it was appendicitis).
1	I can't really think of a specific situation.  If something is wrong with me like a feel a pain that I hadn't had before, I'll look up online what might be causing the pain.  Then I'll decide whether it's serious enough to see a doctor.
-1	I have had some personally specific injures and illnesses that I think i know a little more about than other ones but aside from that I dont have anything to go off of.
-1	my grandfather had diabetes and as a child i would watch him give himself insulin shots. That is what sparked my interest in the medical field. Last January I enrolled in a medical course where i learned how to measure liquids in a syringe, how to read needles (cc's and ml) as well as how to do medical billing for hospitals and doctors offices.  Since learning this knowledge it has enabled me to have intelligent conversations with others as well as help myself be more knowledgeable about my health and the health of those around me
-1	I had to go to the doctor last year when I was having upset stomach and feeling very anxious. The doctor thought it had something to do with my kidneys, but I just had a feeling it was anxiety. I think I was right because it went away when the stress went away.
1	After my dads second heart attack I had a good idea of what the procedure would be and how everything would go
1	I was having an anxiety attack, but knowing what an anxiety attack is, I was able to calm myself down and work through it, without the feeling of dread like I was dying
-1	I have always liked reading about these topics. Besides i have dealt with some sick familiars and I've been part of their medical visits so I've learned a few things in the last years. 
1	I was told one year ago that I have type 2 diabetes which does not run in my family. Neither am I particularly fond of sweets so I did some research and found that chloresterol reducing medicine that I have been taking some for about 6 years now has been linked to the onset of diabetes. I have stayed on top of this relationship as well as keeping well-informed of diabetes as a whole so that I can better deal with this health condition.
1	I went to nursing school and earned a degree (associate degree in science,  nursing). I have been a Registered Nurse since 2010. I am now a Nurse Case Manager.
1	I went to a doctor and he told me I had type II diabetes. He recommended some drugs to me, even though I knew it was caused by being overweight. I suggested that the only logical treatment would be to lose weight and stop eating carbohydrates. He agreed with me, but said he thought it was unlikely that I would succeed in losing enough weight.
-1	I once correctly diagnosed a friend of mine as having bronchitis. i could tell by the way he was weezing. He was also having other symptoms that told me he was having this particular trouble. 
1	My dad has battled Hep. C for the past 2 decades. He was apart of the testing group for the recent drug released that cures Hep. C
-1	I worked in a speech and hearing clinic and I would often need to read audiograms and patient information. Many clients had medical problems I needed to understand.
-1	When a friend ask me about an issue that she had. She was told that her child had problems with nosebleeding that occurred rarely. I told her that he looked fine and to get nasal spray soften his nose. It worked perfectly and he felt even better after that incident.
1	A few weeks ago one of my children became sick.  I began to monitor his temperature.  When his temperature went over 103 I decided to give him a cool bath and prepare to take him to the doctor if that did not lower his temperature.  After the bath his temperature was down.  I continued o monitor his temperature and give him children's Tylenol until he felt better.
1	I was in a bad car accident several years ago and have had multiple abdominal surgeries up to this point.  I can and have talked to the doctors about what previous surgeries and procedures were attempted, why they theorized they failed, and I know what options I have to treat my underlying issues moving forward and have explained these during the consultations.
1	My relative had two strokes last year and I assisted her with her recovery. I attended doctor appointments with her and I explained things that she did not understand to her. I helped put the doctors words into a language she could relate to. Also, I helped her ask questions so the doctor could understand what she meant. 
1	When I was pregnant, we found out my son was breech, and could not be turned because he was stuck in on one side, the doctor was explaining the c-section procedure, but I was already familiar with the procedure because my wife, who carried our other children, had already had one.
1	I brought my husband home from the hospital, after telling the nurse he looked worse then when he got in the hospital. She insisted he was okay. So I took him home. My mom said she didn't think he was gonna make it. She was a nurse at a old folks home for 40 years and knew what people should and shouldn't look like. I was so tired I slept a couple hours and then took his pulse and blood pressure. It was so low Im not sure how I got him to the car. But the doctor said to go home, put him to bed, he'll be fine with the meds we gave you. He was in ICU for 4 days and then in the hospital 10 more days after I just brought him home. If I hadn't paid attention he'd be dead.
1	I have my Master's Degree in Chinese Medicine. In order to obtain said degree, I had to learn a good bit of Western Medicine. In the state I graduated in and practiced in I was considered a primary care physician. I was able to diagnose diseases and refer patients out to western doctors when I felt the need to do so. I have learned a good amount about health in general and medical issues.
-1	There have been several times that either me or someone I know has gotten sick or hurt, and I have treated it myself long enough to drive to the doctor's office. When I get there the doctor says that I treated the problem correctly.
1	I had a physical a few years back, and the blood test results showed that I am anemic. This explained a persistent low energy over the years. Iron supplements were prescribed, and it was explained to me that they would improve my results cumulatively, and that anemia is due to not enough oxygen reaching the organs.
1	Since I like to read about psychiatric illnesses and pharmaceuticals as a hobby, this knowledge is demonstrated whenever I visit a psychiatrist. 
-1	I google the web everytime sometime to learn about some common medical conditions, so over the years, I'm gradually become more adequate in diagnosing some certain health issues
1	I diagnosed my son's strep throat symptoms referring to online medical resources. I was then able to accurately explain to the doctor where the pain was and the film on his glands.
1	i work in a doctors office, i see charts, systems and patients all the time. I also talk to doctors and nurses all of the time. Most of my knowledge is from school as well as work experience. I have experiences all day long with his. 
-1	I learned tons of information regarding various treatments when my grandmother was diagnosed with stage 4 breast cancer, I was her primary caregiver during that time and was present at all medical appointments.
-1	Basically anytime I'm sick I know that it's because I've been in contact with sick people and they passed it on to me via some form of contact.
1	When I went to take my test to sell health insurance. I studied very hard and I passed it on my first try. It wasn't easy, a lot of tough questions were involved.. But I managed to get it done and it really proved how much I knew because I passed it and got my licence. 
1	I recently was diagnosed with a UTI. I knew from the symptoms, the constant urge to go, burning after urination  and full feeling that it was more than likely a UTI. I went to prompt care and was diagnosed with a UTI and given antibiotics. I was actually suffering with the symptoms for over a week and hoped it would clear up on its own by drinking plenty of water but it only got worse. 
1	When a coworker was telling me about the tightness and discomfort in certain parts of her leg, hip and knee area, I suggested she have her massage therapist have a look at her IT band. Turns out her IT band was extremely tight, so she was given exercises to help out.
1	As I ave mentioned in early blobs I have Congential Adrenal Hyperplasia and Dystonia both conditions I wa born with.  In my early teens I developed asthma and mental health problems and since have had way to much interaction to come away less than jaded.  Though these questions are more about maths than healt.
1	My toe was swelling. THere was pus coming out of it. I looked at the symptoms and searched for it online. I found self-diagnosed the problem
1	My aunt was diagnosed with diabetes after she retired from work. Through this period, I helped her to properly measure her insulin and inject it and I also made sure she kept on top of her pill medication and prescriptions. I often took glucose readings for her and explained how important proper eating and exercise was for her condition.
-1	The only thing i can imagine with my minimal knowledge was when my youngest had over come their bought with the hand foot mouth disease and a friends children contracted it at their daycare. I was able to advice her what we had been advised, the benefit to her was a reduced down time in illness. Her children seemed to get well a bit faster, maybe because i had been able to give her advice on what helped us. I do not have a lot of knowledge nor have i had many sitiuations present themselves for knowledge to be gained... yet!
-1	When my sister was little she had a lot of issues.The doctor would diagnose her with inner ear issues (not infection) to behavioral issues, but I read about sensory processing disorder and thought it sounded like what she might have. I told my mom about it and she asked the doctor how to get her tested. The doctor said it was a made up condition to explain behavioral issues but my mom asked for another opinion. That pediatrician referred her for testing and she not only got a diagnosis of SPD but a few years later we found out she has autism. If I hadn't pushed my mom to have her tested it she might have missed out on early interventions and her sensory issues would be labeled behavioral.
-1	When I was diagnosed with IBS I had to learn how to change my diet first and foremost. I had to do some research because at the time I was told it wasn't a disease and could not be treated (ten years ago). I had to figure out what aggravated my condition and learn to cope with it.
1	I have a young daughter that had food allergies when she was very little.  It took many doctor visits and some research on my own to figure what was going on
1	I was recently diagnosed with pre-diabetes. I learned that having blood sugar under 100 is good. I now test my blood sugar twice a day and know if my readings are good or bad.
1	I'm not sure what this prompt is asking. I think when I take my kids in to the doctor, I feel that I'm reasonably rational and calm. I feel like I don't immediately jump to the worst case scenario, though that is what I want to do in my head for myself. I
-1	I mean, most of it is common sense. I'm no where near as knowledgeable as a doctor. For the last 10+ years, instead of spending a bunch of money to go see someone who is only worried about getting through the day, I will just look online. If something weird is going on with my body, I will look online and gather knowledge. 
1	I went over the paper work when bringing my daughter into this world.  Filled out all the insurances.  Worked with my wife in signing documents in the hospital and squared away every issue the doctor brought to us.
1	I am unsure of a situation other than when I get sick, I know which type of medicine to get depending on the symptoms. I also know I do not need to go to the doctor when I have a cold or sinus issues. 
1	When my sister was diagnosed with ALS and we had to learn as a family about this disease and how to care for her in the best way possible.
1	I got food poisoning and could not even keep liquids down for days. It got to the point by the third day if I couldn't keep down water I knew I would have to get someone to take me to the hospital because I was extremely dehydrated.
1	I went to the doctor and they told me I was at high risk for high blood pressure. They told me to decrease my intake of salt to a certain degree but didn't explain further. They also told me other factors can relate to HBP but didn't further explain. I had to rely on the internet and was overwhelmed. 
1	I cannot recall a time when I was solicited for medical knowledge until now when I took your survey.  I would only casually discuss such things.  I have no professional credentials.  Only my own knowledge.
-1	 this cancer people effect not taken all over world. it is most people must died.Cancer is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body
-1	When I was pregnant with my kids I always did a lot of research.  Whenever I went into doctors appointments I always knew what could be wrong and what the treatment would be.
1	My dad had problems with his foot after having surgery. This was many years later. He couldn't walk on his foot. I had a coworker that had gout and was experiencing the same symptoms a couple years earlier. I told him that might be what it was and it turned out to be gout.
1	I honestly don't really think that I have any. Outside of regular checkups I haven't ever been to a hospital. I guess the closest thing would be that I have a daughter, and I've had to read and talk to doctors about her. However she's only been to hospital once for something other than I regular checkup so I don't know how much experience that really gives me either. Overall I think just my general ability to understand things is probably my best experience.
1	I once had a painful, bleeding (and puss) coming from my backside. I did a bunch of research on my own before deciding that I 100% had a pilonidal cyst. I went to the doctor and he confirmed the diagnosis. I had outpatient surgery.
1	In my younger years I have been a Master Scuba Diver. That implicated that I had to be up to date with Medic First Aid, Rescue Diving, and I am also a license Oxygen Provider and trained in Enriched Nitrox Diving. I have had a few real rescues in that time and fortunately they all worked out good.
-1	I avoided catching diabetes by exercising and eating correctly for most of my life, its is health problem that runs in my family. 
1	I had a situation where I had athlete induced hematoma. Because of this past experience I was able to recognize when I was having a side effect from that in a future event that happened.
1	I guess when discussing different medical problems with my husband.  I have a different knowledge base than him.  We both bring different knowledge to the table but, I know more about things that I suffer from.  Also, different problems in my family.
1	I have recently been experiencing very bad insomnia. I discussed possible factors with my doctor, and asked for bloodwork, which came back normal. I started charting my cycle, my alcohol consumption, my diet, and also considering my stress levels. After three months of tracking, I determined that alcohol was the main factor. I stopped drinking alcohol, and my insomnia has gone away.
-1	My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer 10 years ago and at that time I didnt know much about it. Over the years I have educated myself all about it ans In turn that has given me the knowledge to take preventive measures for myself. A few months ago my aunt was diagnosed as well. Science has come a long way since I first learned about it so that knowledge that I had from the experience with my mom helped me to be prepared for any questions that my aunt had during her process and I think the fact that my mom went through it too help me as well to get through it.
1	I think I learned some information when I started going to the gym regularly years ago. Terms like resting heart rate, maximum heart rate, pulse rate, etc. where in the fore when I took on the aerobic portion of my workout.
-1	When I was 35 I was feeling really bad all of the time.  I fell generally unwell, dizzy, headaches, thirsty all the time, unable to sleep well and just feeling blah.  I had a weird feeling I was diabetic so I started to do some reading about it for a few weeks and got as much information as possible.  I then made a doctor's appointment and told my doctor what symptoms I had and why I thought I had diabetes.  My doctor was impressed with my knowledge and scheduled a test.  A couple days later I found out I was indeed diabetic.
1	This is difficult to identify. I can only describe it definitively as the moment that I had children of my own to take care of. I care so much about them that I learn about things that I would otherwise ignore. I want them to be healthy; therefore, I learn as much as I can about health and medical issues. While not objectively logical, it is a function of love.
-1	I was prescribed a combination of 3 antibiotics. The doctor wanted me on it for 3 months. But after research and feeling sick I took myself off this combination. 
-1	Being in the military has given me a little bit more exposure to the medical and health issues. We practice a lot of medical procedures. Also going to Afghanistan has allowed me to work on casualities. 
1	Recently my elderly aunt fell in the snow and suffered frost bite on both hands. After spending three days in the hospital burn unit, she was discharged home with both hands bandaged. The next day I went to visit her and saw that her hands were in poor condition. She had removed the bandages and several of her fingers had open, weeping wounds. I thought a couple of them might be infected. She refused to return to the hospital. Later a visiting nurse came and confirmed possible infection. She also convinced my aunt to return to the hospital. Fortunately she was able to make a full recovery.
1	I knew the technical terms used by the doctor during my husband's cancer treatment.  I also knew the doctor was not keeping up with the latest science and he confirmed that to be true, given his schedule.
1	I worked in a rural hospital that served as the local area cancer treatment center on the weekends.  I would sit for hours and register patients for treatment the following day.  I would have to file lab and xray results into their charts.  This was before everything went paperless.  I spent a lot of time reading notes and diagnosis because I worked a lot of second and third shifts.  I was still in college and I tried to make the most of my time when I was a work.  
1	One time I was not feeling well and I was able to go online and look up my symptoms. The tentative diagnosis I gave myself matched what my doctor thought.
1	A few years ago I got in shape and lost a lot of weight. I had a chance to demonstrate my knowledge of health when I helped a friend to also loose a few pounds with healthy eating and exercise. 
-1	When I had an STD scare, I had to look for issues and symptoms in certain places. I had to research and use my common knowledge on the issue.
-1	I had hep c. I was told there wasn't much to be done by my PCP. I then heard on npr a new drug was now available called sovaldi. I found a new Dr who put me on a program got the drug approved, and after taking the 3 drug regimens cocktail I was cured.
1	One time, my nephew cut his hand and was very nervous.  I proceeded to not only stop the bleeding, but give him a lesson in basic first aid.  This involved methods for stopping bleeding, barriers to infection, and treatment of bruises or sprains.  He found this lesson interesting and informative and demonstrated these skills later on when injuring his ankle a few weeks later.
1	My pregnancy required that I ask my doctor lots of questions about symptoms that I was experiencing. I frequently went to each appointment with a list of questions about what was normal and what was not. My doctor was impressed that I had learned so much about pregnancy and pregnancy complications.
1	Woman problem. I had my period for 8 months straight before my doctor got me into a specialist (gyno). I was quite confident when I was able to go back to my doctor and repeat what my gyno had said and understood what I was talking about. hyperplasia is the overgrowth of uterine tissue, which was causing that issue, but I also had multiple cysts at different times on different ovaries, but not in my uterus.
1	I don't have any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have never faced a life experience that required me to know anything. I do know about basic health issues such as obesity or what it feels like to have high blood pressure but i've never been in a situation where i had to demonstrate it.
1	I was able to bring up some possible causes of what I may have been suffering from to my doctor. When they explained things I was able to easily understand and ask questions.
-1	I don't know , just accepting the fact that I have to go to a doctor and let them diagnose the problem seems good enough. The fact that I'm not someone who goes on the internet and tries to solve there own medical problems means I'm doing better than a lot of people.
-1	I have been Type 1 diabetic since I was 10 years old. This really helped when my nephew was diagnosed because most of my family is semi=aware of what to expect. My nephew still calls to ask questions sometimes and I am happy to help.
-1	I cant say that Ive ever had knowledge of medical issues that Ive been diagnosed with before being told about the issue and what it is. As far as health issues I know that its not good to smoke or drink a lot. I know that keeping active and eating right help aid in staying healthy things like that.
-1	I have a thyroid issue where my body doesn't produce calcium. Ive had this issue for about 15 years. I have to see the doctor regularly because it can cause seizures.
1	Having gained some basic medical knowledge over the years I have learned to listen toy body. Specifically in response to stress. I have multiple autoimmune diseases and have learned much needed stress management techniques.
1	An experience I has that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when I cut my finger, and due to a rather large snowstorm, was unable to leave to possibly get it looked at. I went ahead and washed it out with hot water, and disinfected the cut on my finger. I also went ahead and elevated it slightly and applied pressure until most of the bleeding had stopped. I had somewhat skimmed the top layer of my skin off, so it looked a lot worse than it actually was, and in this situation I was able to control my thoughts and use basic first aid, rather than freaking out about the situation and causing myself to panic.
1	I was at a festival and a person was experiencing dizziness and nausea. I noticed that the person was wearing heavy clothing even though it was a hot day. I asked the person if they'd drank any water that day and they had not. I thought that the person may be dehydrated and overheated and told him he should slowly drink as much water as he could and to place a wet towel over his head and neck. 
1	I have been dealing with persistent colds and respiratory infections and recently, I looked up what I can do to get rid of them and have been taking steps in making sure that I no longer deal with them.  I have been eating healthy, exercising and sharing my tips with friends and family.
1	I am not good with math, so I need someone to thoroughly explain such stats to me rather than depending on my math skills. Most doctors I have had are willing to do that. 
1	I had an auto accident a little over two years ago. I was rear-ended, and although I had no scratches or bruises, I did hit my head hard on the headrest and the rear impact caused pain in my back within the hour. I knew to apply ice and knew to rest until I could be checked out by a physician, which somewhat controlled swelling. Plus I knew to seek treatment immediately for rehabilitation and to reduce any muscle damage/scarring.
1	My wife is a nurse and we have been married for nine years and she helps me understand all sorts of medical issues. Her along with Google makes things a lot easier to understand.
1	I had some heart related issues early on in life so I think I learned about cardio matters a lot earlier than most people which has helped me stay informed with health matters.
1	Working on a jobsite years ago a coworker cut his hand badly, so badly that he cut a vein and it was squirting blood along with his heartbeat. He was losing blood quickly. I knew to put a tourniquet on the arm to stop the bleeding so he could travel to the emergency room.
-1	I studied medical assistant program and it has given me some knowledge of various tests and procedures as well as health and medical issues. It has also helped working in this environment and from reading and office/hospital visits.
-1	I had a bad cut on my hand that probably could have benefited from having stitches. I took care of it on my own, however, from previous experience with bad cuts. Through proper bandaging, cleaning, and maintenance, I was able to heal the cut in about two weeks. 
1	When my wife had a baby I knew when to take her to the hospital due to the fact that we had had multiple children before hand.
-1	"My husband had severe pain in his left side after a pleurodesis procedure. He also had a fever, an elevated white blood cell count, and constipation. The doctor insisted it was just ""residual pain"" and the body's response to the procedure, while I kept arguing that it was more likely he had an infection of some kind. The doctor refused to do any blood work or send him for a CT scan to be sure, so we left that hospital AMA and went to another facility's emergency room. They found out my husband had a ruptured intestine, which required emergency surgery. He died 22 days later of sepsis from that rupture. Doctors don't always know everything and should learn to pay attention when their patients say something else is wrong."
1	I damaged my toe nail. Based on a previous experience I understood that the doctors would only help to rip off the damaged nail. I opted to do this myself to save time and money.
1	every week, when we have exams, my knowledge on medial issues is tested in more ways than i can explain. Boards, are the ultimate test of my knowledge i guess, and thats in 3 mnths. 
1	I have borderline cholesterol issues.  So I have done a lot of research on eating properly  to keep that from going up.  I actually had it go down into a very normal range.
1	In the past 1.5 years, I have lost 95 lbs. I had to pull from my knowledge of exercise and nutrition to achieve this. Additionally, I have had to understand how this affects my blood sugar, cholestrol, pulse, and heart rate. I have also had negative effects from my health goals in terms of exercise causing me injury and extreme pain. I have had to pull from my knowledge of how muscles, bones, and cells work to design plans that have gradual enough progress to prevent injury.
-1	An experience in my life when I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is in being able to assist when people are having seizures. 
1	I honestly cant think of one where I have but Im always willing to go the doctor if something is wrong
1	my brother is a diabetic so once my friend was telling me he wasn't feeling well and he described  his symptom and   from my experience i could tell he had low blood sugar
1	I went in for a gastrointestinal issue and it was deemed that I needed a colonoscopy.  I was given a list of medications to consume in preparation as well as a process to follow for the surgery.  Without any assistance, I took the list and prepared myself for what turned out to be a successful procedure.
1	After tearing my ACL in 2012, I ended up re injuring it once again in 2013 and had to have two surgeries. By the second surgery I was already prepared with what I had to do for recovery and rehab. 
1	I had been vomiting every morning for 4 months. I saw 6 different types of doctors and none could give me a diagnosis or any relief. I did my own research and discovered Cyclical Vomiting Syndrome. I brought the empirical guidelines to my doctor and have had successful treatment since.
1	My family has a long history of diabetes, heart disease and breast cancer knowing this has helped me recognize sysmtoms, prevention and care for those disease also.
1	When I got hired to work security for a large corporation, they put us through a special version of the CPR training so that we can be informed and help if anything were to happen while we are on post. I had previously taken the CPR training because I spent some time working at a hospital briefly and they required it. I demonstrated my knowledge by completely acing all of the tests and the demonstrations they had me perform, and even helped out other people who were having difficulties performing the tasks.
1	I researched and implemented a medical protocol (long-term, low-dose antibiotic) to recover from the affliction of undifferentiated monoarticulating HLA-B27-related spondyloarthropathy, in which I eventually went into remission after 3 years (that was 20 years ago, so I'm calling it permanent remission), avoiding becoming a certain cripple with a compromised immune system, or dead, as my colleague's husband ended up, from T-cell lymphoma, having the same doctor as I but actually following his advice to take methotrexate.
1	I was a caregiver for my mother-in-law when she had cancer. So I would go with her to her appointments and I always took along a notebook and made sure to ask questions and write down the answers. It was really important that we understood and remembered everything that was said. I am not sure if this is the kind of answer you are looking for, but I believe that the communication between a doctor and patient is the crucial factor. My knowledge is that I know that I don't know, so I have to depend on my doctor's knowledge and expertise.
1	I understood helath issues when I got a UTI. My doctor fully explained everything that was going on with my health at the time. I told him I fully understood and took the extra steps neccessary to nclear up my issue. 
-1	My daughter had surgery on her aorta and the doctor was explaining the surgery and I was able to join in the conversation and knew what he was talking about.  I had knowledge about the situation.
1	One of my grandsons was pulling on his right ear one day.  He couldn't talk yet so I knew something was bothering him.  He had a slight fever and just wasn't himself.  I figured it was an ear infection.  We took him to the doctor and it was an ear infection.  
1	I am a Standardized Patient for medical students and have been for over 15 years. I have portrayed a multitude of cases including blood clot, sinusitis, pregnancy, appendicitis both during pregnancy and not, gallstones, pediatric meningitis, etc, so I have a fair amount of knowledge above the regular person not in the medical field.
1	I've always had problems with cramping during my periods, and have had a history of ovarian cysts.  I had multiple exploratory surgeries to remove the cysts.  The cysts came on a cycle of approximately every five years, I would have surgery every five years to have them removed.  Finally after quite a bit of research and discussion with my doctor it was decided to do a partial hysterectomy and remove my uterus to see if that would break the cycle.  this worked for ten years, at that time I started getting the cysts on my ovaries again, with the pain being 75% of the month.  it was decided that my ovaries needed to come out to prevent this from happening.  By my doctor being informed on what the best course of action was for me I was able to keep my ovaries for a longer period of time, therefore not having to take synthetic hormones until absolutely necessary. 
1	I worked at as a physical trainer and had to help monitor heart rates and health concerns while people were exercising.  I was also trained in CPR.
-1	Try to use common sense and math skills.  It will be better for use to understand the number to be more accurate.
1	As someone who grew up with family members in the medical field and being around people who often had to take medication, I feel that I've had enough early exposure that I'm not uncomfortable around medicine. I'm also in pre-nursing at the moment so some of the pre requisite classes I've taken as well as advanced reading I'm undertaking have given me some insight and knowledge into these kinds of things
1	I do not have any experience at all regarding health or medical. Everything I know if from experience or looking it up online or in a book. Or asking my mother.
1	My son when he was young began choking on a grape in a restaurant.  I was able to perform the Heimlich Maneuver on him successfully.
-1	I had to be proactive when talking to my son's doctors about a medical course of action for him due to his kidney issues.  
1	When my children ran high fevers, I would take them to the Dr.  When one child got the chicken pox, I knew what the symptoms were, and was able to tell when my second child got chicken pox because they exhibited the same symptoms.
1	It was several years ago when I was dealing with a snake bite that a friend of mine received while we were out on a hunting trip. Knowing that it was a rattlesnake that had bite him, I knew how to handle it, keep him calm, and do what I needed to do until we were able to to him to the Emergency room. 
1	I was recently in a car wreck last year and went to see the doctor because I had pain in my back and neck. I explained to the doctor that I had a previous back injury (bulging disc) from a sports injury and that I had pain in the same places but not as severe. After we did x-rays and and MRI he explained that there was no serious damage done to my vertebrae and I fully understood the situation because I had been through it before.
1	The only thing that I can really think of is a time when I developed pneumonia.  As I stated earlier in the survey, I never go to the doctor unless I'm sure something is wrong.  I felt myself over the course of a two week period becoming less energetic and more and more out of breath doing simple everyday things.  I continued to go to work during that time assuming that my body would defend itself and I would snap out of it.  When I coughed at work and expelled a mass of oddly colored phlegm, I new something wasn't right and went to the doctor that afternoon after work.  That's when I was diagnosed with a form of walking pneumonia.  I hope that's near to what you're looking for.
1	I have raised a family , with two children, who are now 34 and 36 years old.  I faced and dealt with the whole spectrum of childhood mishaps, common illnesses, and accidents, thank God successfully.  Mainly I got good at discerning when medical help was absolutely needed and when I could handle it myself with  ordinary first aid and care.
-1	My husband was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes close to a year ago. We both have become very educated on eating healthier and also managing insulin levels. 
1	My friend asked me about a test that he got at the doctor. I looked it over and actually had some knowledge about it. I explained what I knew about it to ease his mind, and told him to get more info from his doctor.
1	I was in a group session led by a psychologist. We were discussing antisocial behavior, and like most people mistakenly do, the people in the group thought that being antisocial meant that a person dislikes socializing. I began to explain that this is a misconcecption, and that antisocial behavior actually would include a lack of empathy for others, willingness to achieve one's own pleasure at the expense of others, and an ability to be incredibly skillful at manipulating people. One one the other members of the group tried to interrupt me, but the psychologist told them that they needed to listen to what I was saying.
1	Recently I had a tubal ligation.  I was talking with a friend who was slightly misinformed about the potential side effects of the procedure.  Since I had recently learned a lot about it, I helped to correct her.  She stated that in most cases, the blood vessel supplying the ovary would be cut along with the Fallopian tube.  I informed her that not only was this very rare, if it did happen to someone she knew, they could probably sue for malpractice.  My doctor personally assured me, and she has done so many procedures she lost count a long time ago, she had never seen it happen where the blood vessel was cut.  So I let my friend know about it, and she was pleasantly surprised.
1	I had cancer. I had to learn and adapt very quickly. While I went through treatment I had to trust my doctors that they were being open and honest with me about my cancer.
-1	I have always been a fast learner and exceptionally bright. For this reason I read most things I found lying around the house when I was a baby. I also try to keep track of health issues as they arrise for myself or family should the need arise to seek additional care.
-1	I would have to say that an experience that I demonstration my knowledge on health and medical issues would be when I gained 15 lbs in a year and decided that was way too much.  It was caused by a medication I was taking so I requested to get off that medication, started walking fast everyday and lost the weight. 
1	I started to develop a rash on my arm/wrist and visited a dermatologist to help determine the cause of the rash. In preparing for the visit, I listed out foods I had recently eaten as well any outdoor activities that may have had me come into contact with any plants or insects. In talking through the situation with the dermatologist, I mentioned that I had eaten a cherry pie very recently to which he noted that certain red dyes in such foods can cause random rashes. Since all other foods I had eaten were not out of the norm and my activities did not bring me into contact with any poisonous plants, we were able to determine that that pie consumption was the most likely root cause.
1	A friend asked me where she should go for prenatal checkups. I felt that my doctor was knowledgeable and caring so I sent my friend to that doctor. The friend was pleased with the doctor.
1	I have a thyroid disorder and through much research and dr visits I am able to tell exactly where my thyroid level should be for me to feel my best.
-1	I was overweight for a period in my life.  I did what I could to lose it by eating healthy and working out.  I got obsessed with staying fit.
1	Discussing high blood pressure and its relationship to weight made it clear to me why I should lose weight. I very well understood the stress that extra weight puts on the heart and blood vessels.
1	I have been to the doctor for a concussion and was aware of many of the possible issues caused by having a concussion prior to the doctor explaining them to me.  The concussion lead to a few complications that I was unaware of, but learned about them and have been able to deal with them because of the information I learned and received.
1	I have found bee propolis and elderberry to be very effective in treating the common cold. While on my job I have in many instances seen people who were sick quickly recover after I give them a couple of capsules of these. They are effective because they enhance and boost the immune system to fight the virus.
1	I used to be a medical transcriptionist. My grandmother had gotten home from a doctor's appointment and had not understood what exactly they were telling her. Upon hearing what the doctor told her, I was able to explain some terms to her that she didn't know what they meant before.
-1	An issue I had one time when I was around 16 and discovered a lump mass in my right breast and told my doctor. 
1	I was told by my doctor to get a shingles vaccine but since I had already thoroughly read the warnings on the prednisone pamphlet that the pharmacy gave me I knew that someone taking prednisone had to be off of it for  at least 6 months before taking any live vaccines.  Knowing this saved me from having a severe case of shingles.
-1	I ripped the tendon in my arm from the elbow to hand, when I went to the emergency room they wanted to xray the arm, I told them several times it was not a bone, however, the xrayed it and found nothing wrong, after going to my pcp and having an mri, he found the tendon was ripped. I worked as a pharmacy tech for many years, so when people come in with a fever, that you can alternate between tylenol and advil every 3 hours. I can usually help my friends when something is wrong by giving them advice about what to take, such as my friend had hurt her knee and was having trouble walking on it, so I told her to take ibuprofen and ice it, the next day she was able to walk and went to the dr.
1	My friend was getting lightheaded and dizzy.He was complaining of headaches often and he had a couple of fainting spells and had an irregular heartbeat. I knew the signs of high blood pressure and suggested they get checked out just in case. Sure enough high blood pressure was the diagnosis.
1	I have no situation that meets this criteria.  I have never encountered such a situation that can relate to this question. 
1	My finace was in a lot of pain and having trouble going to the bathroom. the pain was mild the first day but by the third day it was very bad and he was nasueted. His syptoms were simlar to an apendicitic from what i googled, but he had already had his appendix removed 20 years prior. i told him something is very wrong and we need to seek emergency care because what he ha sis not just a stomach ache. It turned out he had blockage from the cra tissue that was left form the apendicitis and the scar tissue and been slowing down is ability to pass waste over the years. the doctor said his condition could have killed him if i had waited longer to get him to the emergency room.
1	I've broken fingers and toes and splinted them myself, I've dressed wounds, I've given myself stitches. I'm former law enforcement and also a certified first responder and CPR card holder.
1	A few years ago I fell on the ice and broke a rib. I did not go to the doctor. I believe that a rib needs time to heal and that there was not much a doctor could have done for me.
1	"I took my mother to see a neurosurgeon for a neck problem. It was a different doctor that I had used. After her exam, I showed him my hand and explained what was going on and told him where I thought the problem was. He looked at me and said, ""You are exactly right."""
1	I was ill with what I thought was the flu back in 2015.  I didnt see a dr and ended up having a collapsed lung.  Since then I have been treated for an immune deficiency.  I have been so frustrated with that diagnosis and treatment that I quit seeing my doctor and getting treatment,
1	I have had several issues come up that have landed me in the hospital either on emergency basis or for surgery. I had mono my last year in high school that put me in the emergency room and urgent care. I also had a horrible ear infection that resulted in 2 different ear surgeries over the span over 3 years. 
1	I haven't had one because my family doesn't believe in doctors and I have no health insurance because that's for people who actually have money.
1	Losing weight and calculating how many calories I needed to eat, what to eat, and how much to exercise to keep my appetite satisfied and fuel my body demonstrated my knowledge of health.  I also always make sure to wash my hands whenever I go out in public.
1	I had the flu recently, a few weeks ago actually. I did not go to the doctor since i don't have insurance. I drank plenty of fluids and took aspirin and cough syrup, and after a few days of bed rest I felt much better.
1	My daughter has a food allergy, and I often have to explain the specifics of eosinophilic esophagitis.   It is not a simple process, so having a solid understanding of it is essential
1	When I became very tired all the time, muscles were very weak, it hurt to even sit for long periods of time and I had headaches frequently I suspected my B12 levels were low.  I asked the doctor to test that and it did turn out to be very very low.  Took a supplement for some time and recovered.
-1	I was asked if a certain diet would work and I did know for certain that it didn't work because asked about the same thing from my doctor. I thought it was neat that I was able to explain and answer why it didn't work.
1	When my boyfriend got a sty on his eyelid, I told him to place a hot compress on it and not to place his fingers near his eye. His eye healed within the next day.
-1	I was experiencing bad stomach pains and would wake up in pain night after night and felt nauseous off and on. I ignored it until I was pregnant and then had a HORRIBLE gallstone attack. I quickly learned all I could about the surgery and my options
-1	Recently, my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. I accompanied her to several of her appointments and was able to help interpret some of the information she was given, as she was very overwhelmed.
1	I had taken antibiotics and got sick for months afterwards. I was able to present the information to my doctor and he agreed that it was correct .
1	There was one instance where I burned my hand with 700 degrees of solder and it hurt like hell. I went to the doctor and I learned all about burns and how I actually treated myself better before the burn got worse.
1	My son has had medical issues since birth.  I have brought up possible conditions, on more than one occasion, that doctors were not concerned about or not going to test for.  After testing, he was diagnosed with that specific condition(s).
1	My daughter had her blood work come back and the doctor said that everything was fine. We got home and I got looking through her paper work from discharge and I seen that one of her lab results was higher than it should have been according to the paper. I called her pediatrician and she said to bring her in. Come to find out my daughter had a serious infection that the ER doctor had missed. 
1	My mom is an RN and I've had a lot of health issues. I don't know what else you expect me to tell you.
1	I haven't had many medical issues in my life so I don't have an experience to draw on. My mother is a nurse, so I tend to not go to the doctors office that often as I go to her for advice. 
-1	In high school I was in an advanced placement biology and anatomy class, and they taught me so much about basic health sciences that I should know. 
-1	"Experience is the knowledge or mastery of an event or subject gained through involvement in or exposure to it.[1] Terms in philosophy such as ""empirical knowledge"" or ""a posteriori knowledge"" are used to refer to knowledge based on experience. A person with considerable experience in a specific field can gain a reputation as an expert. The concept of experience generally refers to know-how or procedural knowledge, rather than propositional knowledge: on-the-job training rather than book-learning."
-1	I started getting painful bumps along the left side of my forehead and over my eye. At first I didn't know why but by the second day I realized that this could possibly be shingles given that it was painful and only on one side of my face. I went to the doctor because it was so close to my eye and that concerned me and she confirmed that I was correct that I did have shingles. Everyone was worried that they would contact this from me but I knew that if they had previously had chicken pox they would not get this and if they didn't have chicken pox they wouldn't get shingles from me but would actually could get chicken pox from having contact with me. My dr. confirmed that this was correct.
1	I have always been interested in health and medicine. I believe healthy living starts with the nutrients (food) you put in your body. Exercise and a healthy lifestyle in general is important to health success.
1	I smoked for many years. I decided I wanted to be healthier so I quit smoking and began training for a 10 mile run. I new if I didn't make changes to my life style, I would not live a long healthy life. 
-1	I went to the doctor with what I thought was a bronchitis infection. The doctor confirmed that is what it was and gave me the necessary antibiotics. I have several bronchitis infections so I knew what the symptoms were before going to the doctor.
1	My friend hurt his arm and i quickly informed him that it was not brokern because i was able to tell it was not.
-1	it would be when i found out that i had diabetes and i had to take a certain amount of insulin and it took a bit of knowledge about medical issues to do so 
1	I was trying to gain muscle. I knew I needed more calorie intake than calorie burn in order to gain weight. I ended up gaining about 20 pounds in muscle in a few months.
-1	I don't have any experiences in my life that I can remember that can demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues in my life. Unfortuanetely I am not able to think of anything 
1	Those were tough at the end. I really got most of my knowledge from my schooling. I was going to go as a pharmacist but ended up just going for biology and chemistry. I also have had some severe stays in the hospital upwards of a month from my brain injuries and I worked in a hospital for a year.
-1	I basically read and studied any material that I have come across on medical issues and diseases. It's crazy how you are more knowledgeable than some mainstream doctors. 
1	I go to the rheumatologist on a regular basis and she is always telling me the likelihood of worsening conditions in percentages.  I find it easy to understand this info fairly easy.   
1	After having gallbladder surgery, I was still having bowel issues.  I researched online and found what the problem was and what could be done to remedy.  I made and appointment with my doctor and described, and he prescribed the medicine and it took care of the problem.
1	My sister was extremely concerned about a lump she found in her leg.  She called me very upset and scared.  I told her that it is very likely just a cyst and not anything cancerous and to not google it.  She went to the doctor and found out it was just a cyst, as I had told her and she was fine.  I don't really have much experience with anything medically serious, so this was the only example I could think of.
1	In high school, I did my health presentation on atherosclerosis and that taught me a lot about causes of plaque build-up and how the body manages it through a mixture of LDL and HDL fats. It was a half hour presentation and I used visualizations on a computer to illustrate the process. That project also showed me how I could use better sources of information that were available to me, like Nature and Scientific American to get a detailed understanding of health processes.
1	Well, one time I was with my friend who was high and I noticed he started having what appeared to be symptoms of an anxiety or panic attack. I assured him that he would be okay, (he thought he was having a heart attack). 
1	I was having some issues with feeling sluggish and foggy and had to have a ton of tests done. I went through all of the information about the tests that my doctor had ordered so I would know what I was getting into
1	One morning I woke up and felt extremely lightheaded. It was a hot summer day and I had not been drinking much water that week. I nearly fainted when I went to go use the bathroom. I figured occurred  because of the extreme heat and because I had been so dehydrated during the week. I immediately got me a cold glass of water and put on lighter garments. I allowed myself to sit and rest and made sure I had drunk plenty of water throughout the day. I did not have any other episodes like this since.
1	When I went to a doctor last year about painful anal fissures and haemorrhoids, I was already pretty well informed about them. This was due in part to having researched them in the past, both in how they relate to poor diet and how they can be caused or exacerbated by anal sex. I already knew going in that these would take a long time to heal, so I didn't expect a quick recovery. Furthermore, I was able to ask better clarifying questions during my appointment due to my prior knowledge, which helped me understand what I needed to do as well as diagnose the cause more quickly.
1	I was a caretaker for both my mother and my father in the last years of their life while managing my own health issues.  I had to learn many skills while caring for both my mother and father like how to change, service a colostomy bag, measure diabetic sugar level, maintain.  Also had to care for my own bipolar 1, meetings, etc. Dad had dialysis as well. had to learn all of that.
1	I went a course on how to provide cpr to a paitient no I am ready for when ever anything happens to one of my family members in order to administer CPR. I know that it can revive someone having a heart attack, and my father has had a heart attack so just in case it happens again I can bring him back to life again. I also spend a lot of time with my grandmother so it will be very useful to know this knowledge beforehand just in case anything happens. I highly recommend everyone taking a CPR course and learning about what it can do for people in danger.
1	I have diabetes II. I met with a nutritionist who taught me how to eat right to keep my blood sugar levels good. I learned what to buy & eat. She was right. When I eat the right foods my blood sugar is great.
1	I was told that I am underweight for my height, as such that I needed to eat more. As such I had decided to exercise in regular intervals as well as I did not want to experience negative side effects associated with overeating. So with the help of online resources I formed a meal plan that fits within a recommended nutritional profile/caloric intake for my body size. As with the previous questions it involves some light mathematics and a bit of research, but it is very much worth it knowing that I am in as much control as I can get in the maintenance of my health.
1	when I was sick with a respiratory illness I mad fresh garlic tea and fresh chopped garlic releases allicin which is good medicine
1	Being diagnosed with a chronic disease has made me aware of issue pertaining to it. I know more about auto-immune diseases now, and am familiar with symptons and treatments of them. I know what others are going through.
-1	When I was younger I babysat for a friend of mine who neglected to tell me that her children just got over chickenpox.  Because of my age, she thought that I would have already been exposed to it.  At point, I had spent very little time around children and during my childhood, I was not often around a  lot of children because I grew up in the country.  On my way home from her house that night, I became very ill and knew right away that I needed medical care because my body did not react in the normal way this illness would have affected a child. 
1	I can't honestly think of any situation like this, I rarely go to the doctor or have any medical problems. I suppose just knowing that a pain in a certain spot on my back could be a kidney stone counts but I only know that because I've had one.
1	My wife had breast cancer.  At diagnosis, her radiologist discussed her ultrasound, and I asked for him to elaborate on the shape of the lesion, the smoothness of the edges, blood vessel involvement, etc.
-1	Everytime I go to the hospital I always demonstrate my knowledge or medical issues because my doctor always asks me and I have knowledge about it.
1	I have had two prostate surgeries. From speaking with my PCP, the surgeon, and my own research, I went into them knowing what to expect. There were no surprises. Although the first was successful, I was in the low percentage group that had recurrence and required additional surgery. That was successful and I have not been bothered since.
1	Most recently, our newborn was having mucous and traces of blood in her stool, and because of our prior experience with our first child, we knew right away this was an allergic reaction to dairy/soy protein in my wife's breast milk.  We cut dairy and soy out of her diet and she perked right up in a few days and her stools normalized.  
1	I had a friend/coworker who had a peculiar change in some patterns that I noticed. He was using the bathroom more often and constantly refilling his water bottle throughout the day. We are software engineers, and he also complained about issues he was having while typing on the keyboard, which he attributed to repetitive stress. I have family members who have had diabetes and suggested that he might want to see a doctor, as some of the issues mentioned above are symptoms. It turns out that I was correct and he is now receiving treatment for it.
-1	I just had an xray done on my back to see if my scoliosis has worsened, i now have a double curved. It's still not bad enough to do surgery but they recommend physical therapy or it may worsen over the next 5 years. Knowing the risks, I can't afford physical therapy sadly, but if it gets bad enough my insurance covers surgery.
-1	I used to teach mentally ill about their illnesses in a group setting.  I have a bachelors degree in psychology which helped in this.  However, I did a lot of research into the medical illnesses they had and also taught information about the physical illnesses as well to help them in all aspects of their lives.
-1	When my father was sick because of his heart and he was on warfarin i knew that he was not supposed to have anything with vitamin K in it because that makes it not work
1	I am an American Heart Fellow. I did a fellowship in a department of medicine and was a research-track faculty in a medical school. I have been a part of two cancer centers (within academic institutions).
1	Last year, I woke up and was barely able to open one of my eyes.  I was certain it was pink eye, but my roommate disagreed with me, saying it was allergies.  I wanted to go to the clinic, but he advised against it, as he thought it was just allergies.  I went anyways, and was ensured by the clinician that it was pink eye.  I was given medication to help get rid of the pink eye.  I think this demonstrates my knowledge of medical issues, because I was almost certain it was one thing, while a peer of mine thought it was something else.
1	I had a strong pressure in my lower chest region. It turned out to be just gas and I was able to self diagnose. i went to the doctor anyways and they confirmed.
1	I had to get a blood test done to see if I could be diabetic. I had some signs and to help ease my nerves I was checked and given a clear bill of health. It just turned out to be a coincidence but I based it off of my dad and my aunt both of whom are diabetic.
-1	Because my parents and grandparents had diabetes, when my husband was diagnosed a few years ago, I had a basic knowledge of what to look for and how to help.
1	When I wanted to lose weight I decided to start tracking calories and macro nutrients. Previously I had never really paid attention to food labels but to properly track my consumptions I had to purchase a food scale and weigh my food and keep a journal. I was shocked out much I was actually eating as you assume the serving size is much larger than what it actually is. Watching my intake I was easily able to lose 5 pounds with diet alone before changing my exercise to lose more.
1	I had melanoma at the age of 28. In my fifties, I noticed a spot on my leg that looked suspicious. I had the mole removed and it was in fact pre-cancerous. I knew what to look for because I had it before.
-1	I have a son who has asthma and food allergies. I have successfully managed his health issues and am slowly teaching him to do the same.
1	I had a miscarriage. the dr was right away going to have me get a procedure, but there was no need for it. I knew this from my research... that it could happen naturally. When I told him that is what I wanted to do he said that is better (He never should have suggested it in the first place and I left him after that)
1	I have learned a lot due to personal experiences with family members. My father had heart disease, and my mother, a brother, and my son have all had cancer at some point, which caused me to research and learn as much as I could about their respective conditions.
-1	I have asthma and my son has asthma. We were following the doctor's action plan but it wasn't working. I knew right away that he needed to go to the emergency room. He was admitted and they didn't start him on steroids. I told the doctor I knew he needed them.
1	When I was younger I  lost a lot of weight by researching the right foods and a good exercise routine, ( i have since put the weight back on). I looked up all the right foods to help with different things and was able to clear up my acne and lose a good deal of weight and well as increase my strength and stamina. I also help other member of my family get into better shape
1	As a teenager, I was correct in telling my mother to go the hospital based on her appearance. It turned out her blood pressure was dangerously high and she ended up being admitted.
1	I volunteered as an ambulance worker in a conflict zone several years ago. We had to deal with injuries from bombings in the immediate aftermath and pick up of the people to be transported back to the hospital. I have no medical training, but I learned how deal with traumatic wounds, bleeding, concussions, and how to triage effectively. I also learned how to administer painkillers and tie tourniquets properly.  
-1	Two years ago, I twisted my ankle, and it immediately started to swell. I could still bend my ankle, and walk on it, without much pain. I thought I had a sprain, and applied ice for a few days then warm heat. Within a two weeks the swelling went down and able to walk without much pain. 
-1	doctors are not always right. i was in a nursing home at 35 and told nothing could be done. through my parterns research i was treated off study and walk totally unassisted now. 
-1	My mother died of lung cancer. It was a learning thing for me. Having taken her to the clinic for therapy. I found the experience enlightening and a bit frightening. However, it something that would help me in the future if I need that sort of care.
1	Few years ago, one of my friends was seriously ill. He had to be admitted in the hospital. He was suffering from bone fracture. I had fractured my bones during my high school. So, I went to meet him at hospital. I told him about my experience. I told him not to worry too much as it would get better in few months. I also recommended him safety tips, healthy foods to eat. 
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health was when my girlfriend passed out due to low blood sugar. She became conscious and I instantly gave her candies I had nearby to bring her levels up and she slowly began to feel better. 
-1	When my friend asked me about the different kinds of birth control . He did not know about the other alternatives besides the pills. I explained what is available and how some of them work . I learned about the different birth controls from experience and larning online and from the doctor 
1	im not sure what to write here because i do not have a time in my life where i demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  
1	I had a mysterious allergic reaction that I went to the doctor for. I was having a very delayed reaction (5+ hours later) so I started keeping a food log everytime this happened. I went to the doctor with my food log so I could show her exactly what food it was. I had also researched why the reaction to this particular food happens and what to do about it and talked to her about that. I went in pretty much knowing what the problem was just looking for a solution. 
1	many members of my family have health issues that I had to learn about to help them keep on track. I have had to look a lot of information up also to make sure my kids are going to be alright when they are not feeling well. 
1	I worked as a health unit coordinator for 25 years up until 2014 when I retired. A main part of my job was to have an extensive knowledge of medical terminology. I have worked in various departments in a large city hospital ranging from telemetry, medical/surgical and maternity.
1	I have had a total thyroidectomy. I have had so many issues with trying to balance my medications. Everything relates to the thyroid. I never would have known all this information without going through this. 
1	I was a CNA. I worked in a nursing home for a while. I have experience with my own health issues in the back.
1	I recently went to the doctor because I had lost 20 pounds unintentionally. My doctor thought it might be related to a thyroid problem but I want to get my cortisol checked to see if it was an adrenal issue. She then ordered both of those tests. 
1	thankfully most of my knowledge of medical issues has been fairly innocuous things like how to tell the difference between cold and flu or what foods are best for sinus infections. 
1	My brother was diagnosed with Muscular dystrophy and I use to help with him by providing nurses who were unfamiliar with disease with relevant information on how to deal with certain that issues that arises with dealing with individuals with muscular dystrophy.
1	Regulating my blood pressure. I purchased a blood pressure monitor to closely track my blood pressure and realized that I probably needed medication to control it.
1	I had a stroke when I was 22 and I was able to understand why it happened to me and what things I needed to get checked out so it wouldnt happen again. I actually was a big advocate for myself because I had a stroke, followed by a concussion and a seizure but when I woke up 45 minutes later I had no residual symptoms. I had to convince the doctors and radiologists to look for proof that I had a stroke and I was able to find evidence of it so we could figure out more about why it happened.
-1	A time I demonstrated knowledge is when I became pregnant again, and because it was my second pregnancy I was more experienced. I knew of the issue and what steps to take for each trimester.
-1	My brother was once hit by a car when we were biking to school, and the driver got out of the car to help him. I ran to his side, and made sure to tell my brother not to move his head/neck, and told the driver not to move him as well. I knew in doing so, much more damage could be done. 
1	A friend of mine was suffering fro fatigue and a rash on her face I told her some of the signs of lupus and she asked her dr to test her and found out she hadl lupus.
1	After much research and review of my symptoms, I was fairly certain that I had multiple sclerosis. Soon after that, I was officially diagnosed with the disease.
-1	When I was pregnant and had to get prenatal care to prevent gestational diabetes.  I also I to get prenatal testing to ensure nothing was wrong with the baby.
1	I just had shoulder surgery. I researched recovery periods, alternative treatments and risks of doing nothing. In the end I chose surgery.
-1	I had a pap smear come back abnormal once. I knew not to get worried till after I had it done again. I was right not to get worried about it.
1	I once got a fever. I hydrated myself and decided to sleep early. I think that this helped me recover more quickly than if I had stayed awake. I also kept stimuli to a minimum so that migraines wouldn't happen.
1	I went with my dad to a doctors appointment because he has high cholesterol. The doctor told him that he needed to lower his cholesterol to a certain level. After we left the office my dad looked at the results of his blood work and believed that his number was within the range of what the doctor recommended. I showed him that he was looking at the recommended amount and not the results of his test. His actual cholesterol was way too high. He would not have known that if i did not get with him
1	When I was shopping for food, I used my knowledge of nutritional information to select foods that wouldn't give me too many calories, excessive sugar consumption, etc. 
1	Lowered blood pressure by changing diet. Found foods I liked that helped lower my blood pressure thst I enjoyed eating. Grains, fruits and vegetables are good for you.
-1	I used to take care of my grandmother. Her mind was starting to go and one day she started having really bad hallucinations and talking nonsense. At first, I thought maybe it was dementia, but then I remembered that strange behavior and hallucinations can often be a symptom of UTIs in the elderly. I called her doctor and was able to get antibiotics. 
1	Several early college classes tested us on human health and medical issues. I also studied psychology as my major, so if mental health counts, I graduated with a 3.5 GPA. I would say that my grade demonstrated an above average knowledge of health and medical issues. 
1	I was able to diagnose the issue when my cousins child was very sick. I was able to tell that she had early stages of typhoid fever and told my cousin to take her to the doctor as soon as possible because of the symptoms and the seriousness of the condition. 
1	My father was a surgeon for decades and I read shelves and shelves of his medical books as a child and teen. In addition I take care to read medical information, good health habits and keep up to date with medical news.
1	While practicing jujitsu I have helped a fellow practitioner that was injured make a sling and gave advice on heating and icing practices. In most sports I have done I have helped people out when they receive injuries, as I have experienced most of them myself. 
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated that I have knowledge of health or medical issues is when I knew I needed mental health help and sought treatment for myself.
1	A few months ago, I was searching for a new dentist that could do everything I needed, from cleanings all the way to endodontics and surgeries. After selecting one after a few weeks of research, I went in and was able to discuss a plan for my dental care with them. We were all on the same page because I knew what I needed and what I wanted from them and they were upfront about what they could offer me and payment. I've been to them a few times since and they've been great, haven't disappeared me, so I'm glad I did my research and was knowledgeable about what I wanted
1	I have taken a few classes on basic health and medicine.  I have regularly gone to the doctor all my life and have done quite a bit of reading on health and healthy activities.  
1	After I went through puberty, I started getting migraines every day. Since then, I have seen more doctors then probably most people will see in their entire lives. Not a single one took my concerns seriously.
1	"This was many years ago but my mom kept getting these burning, itchy rashes accompanied by hot flashes in the middle of the night.  She went to an allergist that checked her for everything and told her it was allergies.  I was reading about vitamins one day and saw that high doses of niacin is used in cholesterol medicines and causes ""flushing"" as a side effect.  I asked her when she takes her cholesterol medicine and she said ""right before bed"" so I told her what I'd found out.  She had her doctor change her medicine and hasn't had an issue since."
1	I had a severe reaction to an antibiotic a few years go.  A few months after it happened, I filled out my paperwork at a specialist's office and marked that I was allergic to the drug.  I realized when they were printing out a prescription for me that it was the same drug I had put I was allergic to and pointed it out.
-1	When I became very ill and everytime I ate I had pain in my stomach and had bowel problems I had hpylori and i had to go on a strict clean healthy diet no yeast and strong medicine I really  learned about my body and health and how to take care of myself I still struggle with stomach issues but have learn ways to keep myself healthier day by day 
-1	I was having very serious nausea for 3 weeks, I couldn't eat anything. Several people told me it was stress, or acid, but I knew it couldn't be that. I did lots of research and my symptoms were very similar to an under functioning gallbladder. I went to the hospital and had a test done, and it proved that my gallbladder wasn't functioning properly. I'm glad I went by my gut and not what others had assumed. 
-1	When my son was 17 he looked to pass out while playing cards with friends. But he was shaking with his eyes open. This to me was the sign of a seizure, so I made sure to put him on his side to keep his airway open so his tongue wouldnt block it and keep anything he could kick or hit away from him that could harm him till the seizure was over.
-1	I was taken to the hospital not too long ago because I was having abdominal pain. The pain was so bad that I had actually fainted. The doctor discussed all the different reasons that I might be experiencing the pain.
-1	My daughter was sick. She was coughing and sneezing and had a temperature of 102.4. Even though she had a cough and sneezing, she was behaving normally. I gave her medicine to reduce the temperature. Later on she started to act very tired. I called the doctor and they said that she was probably fine and wanted us to come in the next day. Then she started to vomit. I took her to the hospital because of her symptoms and she had a stomach viris. i felt that something was wrong with her and i did not want to wait until the next day.
1	When my dad started displaying symptoms of pneumonia, I immediately had him rushed to the hospital.  If I didn't know the signs, he would have gone into septic shock.  My knowledge of health issues likely saved his life.
1	My son complained of numbness in his pinkie finger. I asked him how his neck felt and he said it was stiff from using the computer. I told him he might have pinched his ulnar nerve and to raise his computer monitor. He did and the numbness went away.
1	I have been a type 1 diabetic since the age of 23. This has required knowledge of a number of different body systems and medical specialties, to maximize my overall health state.
1	I once treated myself for a sexually transmitted disease by ordering antibiotics I had looked up (by affect to body region). I found ciproflaxin for my bladder and urinary tract, and I found doxycycline for my STD health. After looking up how long a trial is of each, I was able to complete two weeks of dosing both. I then paid for a std test at my University Health Center and I tested negative twice, to which I was very happy. In my opinion you don't need a doctor, it's just 99% of people (including myself) will never share the same knowledge as one and medicine in it's concentrated forms can be very hard to dose and apply to select cases. I am glad doctors are around, as anything more complicated than the pills would be beyond me.
1	I had just had my third baby and was nursing him one night when I felt my left side go numb. I knew something was very wrong and the feeling lasted into the day. A few days later I could not walk and was slurring my speech so I went to the ER. I was positive I was having a stroke based on my symptoms but I passed the stroke test. After my MRI results came in they indeed saw that I had suffered from an ischemic stroke. 
1	I don't have much knowledge of health or medical issues, but I'm confident in my ability to figure out what I need to know when I need to know it, so I never worry about trying to figure medical stuff out ahead of time.
-1	When my mother passed out on the floor I made sure she was breathing. I did mouth to mouth CPR. I also ended up calling the ambulance because she was unconscious. 
1	I have kids that get sick sometimes and we always have to make a decision about when they need to see a doctor or when they don't. I use my past experiences and current symptoms to make that decision. 
1	I have virtually no knowledge of health or medical issues.  I once learned, in a community college course, how to do the Heimlich maneuver. I've never had any opportunity or reason to use it outside of that one instance though. 
1	"I am a mom of 7 children, so I often have to make late night ""diagnoses"" using the internet as my source. Recently one of my children had a sore throat. I googled it and found images. I looked in her throat and determined that it was strep throat by the white spots on the back of her throat. The next day I took her to the doctor, and it was diagnosed as strep throat. "
1	All of my knowledge is done through the internet. With how the internet is today you can search anything and many accredicted doctors will have information on what these symptoms can mean. People can also post on forums who have had the same issues and they openly discuss them for the world to see and learn from.
1	I I had an abnormal cervical screening.  I was diagnosed with PCOS, inferitility, and IBS.  You just kind of pick up knowledge as you go.  The older I get the more I am diagnosed with.  You just pick up knowledge of your body as you go along.
1	well, I think this survey very much demonstrates my lack of health knowledge.  I can't figure the majority of these what % of people got false positives.  I just don't know.  I don't know that it really matters to me, the statistics of it all.
1	I tested positive for the hepatitis B antigen, so I was disqualified from giving blood. However, I know I did not contract hepatitis b, so I know it was a false positive, which can happen all the time with tests like that.
-1	When I took a long flight I ended up getting a blood clot in my leg. This helped me learn a lot about blood flow into the extremities and the damages a blood clot can have on the human body. I also learnt how to lower the rick of getting one in the future. 
1	I have an understanding of endometriosis pain, and getting endometriosis cysts because I have had them in my life. Before having kids, I never had any problem, but after my C section I developed pain that I could not control in my abdomen. After several tests I went in for surgery and ended up having a cyst.
-1	When my father developed blood clots in his legs - I was able to recognize the symptoms: pain, swelling, discoloration, warmth.  He thought he'd just pulled a muscle, but I convinced him to go to the ER.
1	When I had my baby he had to stay in the NICU for 2 days. At first, I didn't understand exactly why, as it could have been a few reasons. It could have been because he had pooped before he was born so there was poop when my water broke. It could have been because I tested positive for Strep B. And it could have been because I had a fever during labor. I later figured out it was because of my fever.
1	I suffer from chronic migraines. I often found a significant tension in my neck when these headaches would occur. I suggested to my PCP that I might benefit from seeing a massage therapist. He agreed and we found the massage therapy would help alleviate the headaches some. 
1	I suffer from RSD and it originally started in my left arm and hand after surgery to repair a broken wrist.  Within 4 months of developing RSD in my arm my left leg started to swell and turn red and blotchy which is a indication of RSD.  My leg was also cold to the touch and very painful when touched which is a definite sign of RSD.  When I saw my pain specialist and he looked he would not believe that it was RSD because he did not believe it traveled, however after finding a newer board certified doctor in pain management he did diagnose this as the RSD traveling and also said it was not in the stage known as CRPS.  I trust my instincts and what my body tells me even if doctors may not agree. 
1	A time when I felt I had medical knowledge was when my child was very young. Her doctor told me that she had nothing wrong with her. I suspected she had a milk allergy and acid reflux. I took her to a different doctor and they confirmed my diagnosis.
-1	I had to go in for surgery to have a ganglion cyst removed from my wrist,I had knowledge of this cyst type for many years because several family members have had this type of cyst.
1	I am a type one diabetic on an insulin pump and medication to lower my cholesterol. I go to my doctor once every three months for check ups  
1	I look up the side effects to my own medications to ensure that I am not having any symptoms that could result in me having serious complications in the future. A lot of major issues with medication start as minor ones.I saved my own life about a year ago knowing these signs. If I had waited any longer to go, or did not notice the symptoms, I would have died. 
-1	My leg was going numb and tingling. I looked at several websites for information, while waiting for an appointment. Turned out to be my sciatic nerve. It was remedied by keeping my wallet in my front pocket instead of sitting on it. 
1	I worked at a retail store. Customers would come in and ask me for advice about what medicines to take since I worked around the over the counter medicine section. I was able to recognize the problems they talked about and was able to successfully recommend medicines or supplements.
1	I had a sore throat for a few days. Then I looked at my throat and saw white dots and realized I had strep. I knew I had to go to the doctor.
1	My doctor casually mentioned Kleinfelter's syndrome and was surprised that I knew what it was. I don't have Kleinfelter's syndrome, and I really can't remember why I read about it in the first place. We talked about it for a little bit and then moved on with the checkup. I have also printed out pertinent medical studies that I've found interesting on several occasions only to find that my doctor knew something about them already. Those moments were probably the times that fit this question the closest.
1	Several months ago, I woke up with a Soren throat.  My glands were swollen, and when I looked in my mouth, I could see the tell tale signs of strep throats in the back of my mouth.  When I went to the doctor, he confirmed what I already knew - strep.
1	I was a psychology major in college so when I was diagnosed with Depression I knew what was happening to me.  It still affected my judgment and made me reluctant to seek treatment but when I did I knew I had to trust my doctors because of what I learned.  I knew medicine and therapy would be helpful for many with my condition but it does not always work for everyone.  I was more prepared for it than some others may have been in my position.
-1	After my mom suffered a stroke, I spent an extensive period of time learning about the condition and how to reduce its reoccurrence as well as the measures necessary to take if someone around you suffers from the event again.
1	A time when I got a very serious cut and knew to tie a tourniquet to reduce excessive bleeding until I could get to the hospital.
1	I have always believed to have reactive hypoglycemia. Doctors always told me I have low blood sugar but not as bad. Yet I lived with the risks and symptoms all my life. Finally 3 months ago after having a bad symptom, I found a doctor willing to do all the tests possible (unfortunate for me financially). He finally confirmed I have reactive hypoglycemia. And a lot of other health concern no other doctor informed me about before.
1	Several years ago, I had what appeared to be a bull's eye rash on my abdomen. Having read about Lyme Disease in the past and having spent significant time in the woods in recent weeks, I reckoned that it was likely that I had a tick bite which should be investigated. I went to the doctor before any symptoms (other than the bite) of the illness manifested.
1	There is not many experience where I had to deal with knowledge of health or medical issues. At times I have to read nutrition labels, or sometimes in college classes I must execute hypothesis testing where the scenario is often a new drug attempting to fall below the 0.05 p-value threshold
1	I don't have any specific examples, any knowledge I have about issues are ones that I relied on the medical community for, I don't spend any time on these things because I don't want to think about the negatives.
1	My mother is a CNA and I have helped her study for her exams. I learned a lot from reading her books and helping her practice. 
1	I attended a number of medical appointments with my father during the process of his diagnosis with Parkinson's disease, and became comfortable advocating for his care.
1	I got tested for a couple of things some weeks ago. I knew all the procedures that needed to be taken and I did them myself. I also stayed calm knowing nothing was wrong
1	Other than high school biology presentations, I have had to switch doctors and apply/appeal for disability and unemployment several times over the last 2 years. I successfully talked about my condition to Social Security and was awarded benefits. Also everytime I've switched doctors, I didn't have transferable records so I have to to recount details of my diagnosis. 
1	My mother had lung cancer and eventually was diagnosed with diabetes due to chemo and eat habits. My mother was not used to her new diagnosis so her sugar levels were up and down. From what I learned in school I was able to help her with trying to get it under control. 
1	I was concerned about some pain my child was experiencing. He was running a fever and generally irritable. He has recently had a cold and I suspected it might be an ear infection because of the constant fussiness. It turned out I was correct and he had a bad ear infection.
1	When two of my three children had breath holding spells as infants. I knew to hold them upright so they wouldn't faint and get hurt. I knew to then give them fluids and rest after.
-1	In basic training we had to know cpr and how to decontaminate contaminated people, animals, and objects. It was fun, but also serious. Not knowing the right steps could mean someone losing their life or a more serious outbreak of the contamination in question.
-1	I gave birth by c-section. So I know the procedures for that and the way in which things are done concerning that. 
1	I've had health issues in my life and my family has also had health issues. I've learned most of my knowledge through having different experiences while going through medical things myself or with another person.
1	A friend had pain in her calf and thought she had a blood clot in her leg. It wasn't red or swollen, didn't feel hot to the touch. I told her I didn't think it was a clot. She went to the doctor and it wasn't.
1	Any time I try to explain neurological disorders, every face goes blank. I try to break it down even further and make it more simplified, but it seems as though thinking on that scale of body processes is something most people I've come across just can't grasp. Most do not understand the ties between injury, fever, swelling, neuron misfires, cerebro-spinal fluid, etcetera. I have to know theses things due to personal medical history..
1	One day I passed by a man lying in the street unconscious.  I recognized that glazed look on his face and came to the conclusion that he had a stroke.  I witnessed this before and am somewhat knowledgeable about strokes.  I immediately called 911 emergency and the came promptly.  They told me I did the correct thing.
-1	i was very dizzy and i knew by being told i have pots which causes issues with alot of a persons body so i knew that i had to sit down and drink water and go to the hospital  when i went i was dehydrsated and if yi stood up  wouldve passed out
-1	I have had issues with high blood pressure, weight gain, bone issues,lower back pain,and hernia. All I try to do is eat right which is hard to do.Exercise consistently is my goal. I work a lot and find it hard to squeeze in the time. 
1	I guess an experience that would be considered knowledge of medical issues is when a friend of mine almost passed out because of his low blood sugar.  I was able to, along with other friends, get him to a stable position and get him a few crackers until someone was able to locate his insulin. This was a pretty intense situation.
1	Lately, my lack of fertility...I have had to change my diet, start prenatals, stop hormones and my body has changed. 
1	There's no particular experience but there's been numerous circumstances in my kid's lives when they were either sick or injured wherein my knowledge of health or medical issues have helped me treat them without going to the doctor.
-1	My son has severe eczema and food allergies and I have to talk to people who watch him a lot about his different meds and his epi pen and where and when to put his certain meds. I feel like Im knowledgeable in that sense of medicine 
-1	I think about the time that I hurt my back. I knew that If I went to the doctor there was nothing that they would do besides tell me to put a compress on it. I decided that it would be a waste of time to go so I did the compress myself and in a couple of days my back was better. I was able to avoid the doctor.
1	My partner's dog tore her dewclaw and it needed to be bandaged while it healed.  After some time of bandaging, it still wasn't healing very well.  I suggested it might not be healing because it was constantly wrapped up so couldn't heal properly.  My partner called the vet and they said the same thing to her.
1	My son gashed his head on a car.  I remained calm and assessed the situation.  I applied direct pressure to the gash.  After a few minutes I looked at the gash and felt it was too large for me to deal with and took him to the doctor for stitches.
-1	i feel like i have some good knowledge about health issues . It makes me feel like i am analyzing some data. And at the same time it makes me a little worried 
1	Well when I was in high school, we had this assignment where we had to volunteer at any store or place for a whole week. I picked a pharmacy in my neighborhood. I tried to help customers find the right medicine for them, while I was being watched by the pharmacist and he said I did a great job every time.
1	I have a degree from a culinary school and have also taken several courses on my way to becoming a nutritionist. My stepfather has gout and it bothers him regularly. My mother asked me to design him a meal plan because he does not eat as he is told and as such gout is an issue he deals with regularly. I worked with him and, based upon my knowledge of how to eat with and treat gout, designed a meal plan with food that he likes and was agreeable to eating. This made a noticable difference in his gout symptoms and issues.
1	A coworker was injured on the job. I have first aid training, I was able to assist them with their wound until medical personal arrived.
1	Probably the area where I know the most about medical issues is in terms of sexual activity. In college, I had to write a couple papers about the issue of sexual education, so I did plenty of research on the subject of STDs or teenage pregnancy. This is probably where I gained a lot of knowledge of health.
-1	I developed a blood clot in my twenties. When I walked into the ER I explained that I had a DVT due to the birth control pills I was taking. I had read the insert and I was correct.  
-1	I have a 2 1/2 year old so I deal with some sickness in him. I've only had to take him to the doctor one time when he was sick, because I know the ways to help your body fight the illness more efficiently. I do everything in my power before resorting to the doctor because there's only so much the doctor will be able to do. 
1	I used to work in a healthcare company in data analytics. So I would have access to all of the patient information and procedural information for the tristate area to run predictive analytics as well as other things. I am pretty familiar with coding and procedures from a statistical stand point and what it means, so the numbers make a lot of sense to me. Additionally, I come from a family of medical professionals so if i had questions about a certain procedure i could always ask.
-1	I have had a problem with weight gain since my 2 pregnancies. I am aware that I have higher weight, higher cholesterol, and higher blood pressure as a result of this weight gain. I am aware of 2 main causes - 1) unhealthy eating 2) not having time to exercise. Because I am aware of the risks, I decided to try to eat healthier and exercise more.
1	I was able to speak to my friend about irregular heart rhythms. I have it and have acquired lots of info. The more I know the less I'm freightful
1	I have always had sinus problems. I have gotten to the point that I can feel when I am getting a sinus infection and can start doing the necessary things to feel better.
1	When my brother in law was in hospice, I was able to use my previous experience from other family members.  Able to explain to her how to change his dressings and how to change his position often to prevent bed sores.
1	I went to the hospital complaining about light headiness.  The doctor told me that I had Hypertension.  He told me to diet and exercise before he considered prescribing me medication.  Ultimately my blood pressure returned to normal after following a stricter diet with exercise.
1	The last time I went to the doctor, I had strep throat. I was being checked up on and I needed to fill out paperwork at the beginning of my visit detailing some of my medical history and needs. This went smoothly.
1	In general, I would just mention that I help certain family members with their own medical and health needs. This could include doctor visits, completing paperwork, understanding how to take medication, etc.
1	In my life, I have learned almost all of my knowledge of health from either my university classes or from medical websites online. The time this knowledge actually came into play was when I went to the hospital and listened to what hospital staff says to patients. Recently my father went to the hospital from an illness while visiting him with my mother the nurse came in to tell us what his condition was like. During the conversation, I had no problem trying to understand any of the basic terms or some of the more difficult medical terms that were discussed by the nurse.
1	A couple years ago I was discharged from the ER suffering from abdominal pain, and other weird symptoms like high blood pressure, and no insight really given as to what was causing this given by doctors. On my own, I was able to figure out that diverticular disease was leading me to experience eventual high blood pressure, and that it got worse the more that I ate, so I could avoid this by fasting when I began to have these kinds of symptoms. That's more than the doctors figured out, maybe I should be a doctor.
1	One thing that comes to mind is the fact that I show up each year for an annual physical.  While this seems like a small thing to many, people who think they are healthy should be getting annual checkups because you really can't always tell.  Even if you work out religiously and eat an extremely healthy diet, it's still vitally important to check in and make sure everything is actually okay inside of you.
1	I have to go back to my osteogenesis imperfecta again as having lived with it for over 60 years now, it is what I know best about my own body.   It takes very little for me to fracture. At times I get what are called spontaneous fractures.   Medical professionals who are not particularly familiar with OI can't believe how little it takes for me to get a fracture nor do radiologist always understand that what I often get are tiny hairline fractures which are hard to see.  Thus I can be diagnosed as not having a fracture when I actually do.  I have to know enough to listen to my own body in those cases.
1	I don't know if it's really knowledge, because I did have to research to be sure and still go to the doctor for verification and treatment, but a few months after my daughter's birth I started having breast pain and woke up one night with terrible chills and fever. I thought it might be mastitis (I was breastfeeding) and after some reading online, found the symptoms sounded right. I went to urgent care, confirmed my suspicions, and got some antibiotics.
1	Taking a course during college for food safety and illness prevention. We took numerous tests, courses and had information about the illnesses people can get from raw food, improper food handling and cross contamination. I am also knowledgeable out items that carry common bacteria from food and food items, since it was meant to keep the workplace, work areas and preparation clean to prevent any issue that may occur during cooking and serving guests.
1	I am a testicular cancer survivor of 15 years. I had to make a choice between surveillance, chemotherapy, and adjuvant surgery (after initial tumor removal). I had and have access to a myriad of professional medical peer-reviewed publications that enabled me to make an informed decision with the advice of my doctor. I did the chemotherapy and got my butt kicked. 
1	I was feeling very sick for a few days straight. I knew that it was very likely strep throat but other people kept telling me it was the flu. I read up some more online and finally went to the doctor. He did a strep test and was able to confirm that I did have strep. 
1	A couple years back I went to the dermatologist, but prior to that I did a lot of background search on what derms do and what they can provide for a patient. I already got a good understanding what they would prescribe me and therefore I knew how to take the prescriptions and what some of the side effects were going to be. I did end up getting what I thought I would so it really helped me out.
1	A year ago I had a false positive mammogram and had to go through so many test including a biopsy to get the final results.
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with cancer, I was told that if I did not remove her from the care of one doctor and follow my knowledge I had on the signs and symptoms of kidney failure to send her to a new doctor. Then she would have died within days instead of her having the few months that she had.
1	When my girlfriend got a similar stomach virus to one i had in the past. i knew the best immediate treatment for her and she got over her virus
1	My 1 year old son had fever. His fever was 100 degrees. I knew that was a little bit lower for a medical attention. I used fever reducers for home treatment.
1	I had a child. I read up a ton on childbirth and pregnancy. I was an informed patient and worked with my doctor to create a plan that would involve as few drugs as possible and would allow me to have as much ability to move as he could grant me. Because I was informed and because he was receptive to my desires, we had a solid relationship that made me feel safe in his care. 
-1	My son was diagnosed with fever seizures. I understood that when he had a fever that I had to watch out for this to happen. I was told that I needed to treat any illness where he could get a fever aggressively. If he starts to feel warm or shows signs of his temperature rising he will get meds to have reduce that so it doesn't happen.  
-1	My experience in life would be that I was  a trained combat medic in the US Army, which in turn qualified me to be a paramedic in the civilian world if I chose to take the state liscensing test.
1	When I broke my ankle I knew immediately what to do having witnessed somebody else go through the same thing. I was prepared for the upcoming actions. 
-1	when i woke up at nigh and was feeling uneasy,i had headache and was sweating all the body.i then decided to take the thermometer and measured my temperature just to be shocked that my temperature was too high and rushed to my wardrobe and took drugs that the doctor had given me and i was relieved
1	I think my level of experience is pretty common for a regular person. I think i learn more every time i go to the hospital, i get sick or anybody in my close circle gets sick. I also enjoy watching different tv programs that teach you more about how to take care of yourself. I also read a lot of articles online about healthy lifestyle. I took few classes about healthy cooking and nutrition   
-1	As I had said or described previously, through my experience I have been able to learn only the basics for medical cases. For example, a while ago I had some problems with my heart. These problems made me understand that I should drink a lot of water, always avoid strong emotions or dislikes. I understood that I could feel thanks to the problem in the heart dizziness and desire to vomit
-1	I have so many to choose from. When I was pregnany I was put on bed rest for 20 weeks. Was hospitalized 5 times. Had a bunch of different doctors. My husband and I researched progesterone and questioned why I wasnt on it. Turns out all the doctors thought I should be, but none of them did anything because they assumed one of the others had. So upon my urging we began daily treatment 
1	One of my friends had to have a surgery because he had an abnormal swelling. By watching grey's anatomy, I was able to tell that my friend had a hematoma and this was confirmed when he had to go in to surgery. One of my medical school student friends was impressed that I was able to tell that from watching a TV show, despite not having taken any medical courses.
1	I have a daughter and she developed a skin rash on her legs.  I took her to dermatologist and the dermatoglist said that she had allergies and prescriped a wide variety of medicines for treatment.  But I did research on the diagnosis and my daughter's problem simply didn't appear to be what was described online.  As a result, I took her to a regular doctor who diagnosed her differently and we used the medicine prescribed and the problem cleared up within a week.
1	I have been dealing with anxiety for a very long time, so when a friend was having panic attacks. I took that information along with what i knew about her personality and told her that I thought that she had a disorder and she should go to a therapist. I was right and she got help for it
1	I learned first-hand about the side effects of cancer treatment (chemo, radiation, surgery).  I learned about the various treatments (CT scan, Pet Scan, external and internal radiation, surgery, transfusions, chemo).
1	Probably when my step dad was complaining about a growth on his face. I have run across information in the past about skin cancer and immediately told him he should get that checked out. He went a couple months later and it turned out that I was in fact right, he was diagnosed with cancer. Thankfully, they were able to cut it out of his face and now he doesn't have it anymore. 
-1	When I was went to the doctor and found out that my cancer came back, I was already familiar with what medicines I needed to take and was knowledgeable about my options 
1	My mother had diabetes. She was diagnosed in 1972. I was 12. I had to make sure she took her shot, and that she ate enough, went to the doctor and would call the ambulance when she had too much insulin. There were no blood monitors and it was a shot in the dark. Sometimes she was too high (the highest  was 1250, and sometimes she was too low (once she was 25). I grew up fast.
1	I have lived with and taken care of a terminally ill parent for years. It was a struggle to keep everything going. It felt like any small slip up could mean she could die. So I was vigilant in everything that was happening to her
-1	i have studied some medicine. i also have had many family members with different health conditions so i like to study up on as many conditions as possible to stay ahead of any symptoms
1	I had a lump in thigh and looked up information on the lump and found a picture of it on the Internet. The lump is a lipoma (or fatty tissue that grows after an injury).  I got lucky and was correct.  The doctor told me what I had.
1	I have a degree in medical laboratory technology and have spent many years working in the veterinary field. I am familiar with testing and medical diagnosis and procedures. Although, it is at times easier to talk to my veterinarian about my dog's health issues than it is to talk to my Dr.
-1	I had an issue with my arm feeling numb and could not use it for a few days. I went to the doctor thinking that is could have been a stroke. They ran tests and put my arm in a sling. I had read up on strokes and saw news stories online regarding strokes. 
1	I had been put on a new medicine by a new doctor that I didn't really think I needed to be taking from what I had read. She was a very new doctor and I wasn't sure she really knew what to do. The next year when I went for my annual checkup, I saw an older doctor that had been practicing for years and he immediately said that there was no reason that I should be taking that medicine and I should stop. He tried to explain to me the reasoning thinking that I would be against stopping but I told him that I had thought the exact same thing.
1	I took a course on environmental toxicology. I also work as a lab chemist for a water-testing company and need to know how ingested chemicals can affect the body.
1	I have explained to people what I do and use when I am not feeling healthy and or have a toothache, headache or other similar things. Other then that I don't go around demonstrating my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	When I found out that I had high cholesterol, the explanation by the doctor was quite complex. It resulted in it being a genetic disorder which was something I couldn't control. After hearing the explanation from him and hearing how the blood works with cholesterol, I was able to go home and explain all of this to my parents so they could understand. The ability to explain something so complex shows the extent that I understand what the doctor had told me.
-1	My knowledge of health and medical issues are when I had my daughter.  When I had her it was an emergency c section.  I had a condition called HELLP.  I didnt at the time know what that was until that day. I had extremely high BP.  I had to have blood transfusions and platelets.  I had to make sure from that point on I watched my intake of fatty foods so my liver would not be affected.  I have learned what fatty liver really is.  My dr test my blood now to make sure my liver is in the normal levels.  
1	I have given advice to a lot of friends who have mental illnesses since I suffer from depression and anxiety disorder.  I have also researched my parents medical issues and helped educate them or clear up any confusion they have about their conditions or the medication they are taking.  Having to have surgery 4 times also helped me learn a great deal and help others deal with the same medical issue that I have.
1	My tenant informed me he was experiencing chest pains.  I called 911 and had him rest.  I checked his pulse to make sure it was strong.  When the fire department arrived, I made sure that they had his medications to take to the hospital with him.
1	I started eating more healthy food and more carefully watching what I eat after taking a Health course in college. I now think about what nutrients different foods offer and have cut out unhealthy foods.
1	We are trying to get pregnant, so I started to track my cycle and attempts to conceive. Based on my research, I determined that these were important to getting pregnant.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when someone claimed to have had the flu. I asked them what their symptoms were and based upon their answers, I concluded that they had a mere cold instead of the flu
1	My best friend frequently panics over small issues regarding her health. When she starts to do so, I often give her statistics to calm her down and when that does not work, I then point out to her the process of elimination so that she can realize how minimal her chances usually are of something major.
1	I was able to get myself from 168 pounds as an adult to 215 pounds through diet and exercise. I was able to maintain a healthy blood pressure by monitoring my sodium intake. I was able to gain muscle by adjusting my caloric intake slowly so as not to gain fat while gaining muscle. Also dropped my LDL and raised my HDL through diet and exercise while gaining muscle through increasing protein and reducing carbohydrates. 
-1	When I was younger in school I remember doing health projects. I had the project boards (tri-fold boards) and my presentations were well researched and sited. Later in life, I can recall even myself having to be re-educated due to advancements in science.
1	I was troubled by BPH for years so I constantly monitored my prostate health. I knew that if my PSA were to rise above 4 and stay there for any length of time that I could possibly have prostate cancer. After many years of monitoring and numerous biopsies I was diagnosed with prostate cancer.
1	I think that the most beneficial experience that I have come across would be just learning how to read nutrition labels, and figure out what my daily intake should be. This has allowed me to learn how to control my weight. 
-1	I mean just talking to my doctor or reddit i guess. I never took classes and i know i didn't do that good. I think i'm a good example of a average joe.
1	I have self diagnosed tonsillitis in the past, showing symptoms of white spots on tonsils, fever, and cough.  Went to the doctor when the cough became persistent and he confirmed my findings. 
1	Whenever i have issues with my health, i will often do my own research prior to seeking medical advice. Most of the time, if you look into certain things from reliable sources, you can find that most common health related issues can be alleviated on your own without an external help. 
-1	When I was diagnosed with Ulcerative Colitis I was not given much instruction on how to deal with it on a daily basis other than to take drugs that had terrible side effects. I began to take the blood test and scopy tests results and learn what each thing meant. I went and got a blood review done and was able to see my cells and learn what the shape and distribution of my cells in the vial mean. I started to change my diet drastically and began taking natural substances such as aloe and ginger to reduce inflammation. Now I have problems still but I can better balance with the chart information and finding resources online I can go to the health store and try and help myself naturally.
1	"One year I went to my primary care physician and there was an option to learn more about diet.  When my doctor found out that I had checked that option, he said, ""You know plenty about diet, you don't need that info!"""
-1	In all honesty, I can't describe such an experience, because I DON'T have a great knowledge of health or medical issues.  I'm not a doctor, or even a med student. The only account I can give you is when I broke two of my fingers at work (due to a rolling machine accident).  The doctor said that he'd have to burn a hole through one of my fingernails.  I immediately understood why... it's a common practice to prevent clotting and swelling of that area. Sorry folks, that's it.  That's all I can think of.
1	I was able to significantly lower my blood pressure by changing my diet to mostly vegetables and fruits. As well as avoiding red meat.
-1	My wife likes to claim that she has cancer every time she feels sick. I keep telling her that she has 0 signs of having cancer, and that she just worries way too much about it. 
1	I had to go to my doctor on 4 separate occasions at one point before she finally agreed to test me for mononucleosis, which I believed I had. At my first visit, she told me I was tired because I was depressed, and she prescribed an antidepressant. At the next appointment when I complained of pain in my side, she told me I pulled a muscle. At the next visit, I told her I believed I had strep throat as well, and she told me there was no sign of strep and sent me out the door. Two days later, I was back in her office, and she then tested me for both strep and mono, which were both positive.
1	When I was pregnant for the first time my period was late and I was throwing up every morning. Even though I had never been pregnant before I knew enough to take a pregnancy test and make an appointment with my doctor to make sure I actually was pregnant and could start getting the medical care that I needed.
1	When my grandfather was in hospice care, I was able to understand what the nurses were saying about his health and how to take care of him.
1	Recently I encountered (along with several other people) a woman lying prone on the sidewalk during a day when the temperature was less than 0 degrees Fahrenheit. More or less spontaneously, we made sure that she was breathing, that she had a heartbeat, that someone had called 911, and then we did what we could to make sure that she wouldn't suffer too much from the cold by warming her hands in ours, talking to her and making her comfort level as high as possible.
1	When my mother in law (age 99, had a heart attack 20 years prior) complained of a sore shoulder and nausea, and her feet turned blue, I suspected that she was having a heart attack. It turned out that I was correct - she had a massive coronary and went into full arrest. 
1	The most relevant evidence that I have experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues is not only my many years of taking care of my personal health matters through the health system, but also my having successfully graduating with my Emergency Medical Technician certificate.  I have also interned in an emergency room for some time and have two years of premed education in college.  
1	My medical knowledge tends to relate around lower back and foot pain. For a number of years I had experienced lower back pain at a young age and doctors just told me there was nothing to do about it. I then went to se a chirpractor and he was able to adjust my back over a number of sessions. This relieved a lot of the pain I was experiencing. A number of years later I started having really bad foot pain and was told by doctor that it was plantar fisciatus and gave me inserts. This did not help and I basically self diagnosed and firued out that problem was being cause by my lower back. Started to do a number of streches and eventually pain receded. Then went back to chripractor to get an adjustment and this totally removed the pain from my foot
1	I developed a blister rash on the bottom of my feet and on my hands. From all the symptoms, I discerned it was probably dyshidrotic eczema. My primary care physician at the time had never seen it before and tried to treat it but ultimately sent me to a dermatologist. She took one look and said classic DE. 
1	When I have a headache or a sickness of some sort, I used to take ibuprofen or other painkillers like that. For the past couple of years when I get a headache or feel rough I will just drink lots of water and take it easy. I find that when I run a fever and leave a headache alone, I will usually get well much faster and even have a feeling in my body the next day like my body is no longer fighting something. I've come to feel like the pain you during sickness is literally the thing that's gonna defeat the virus and make you feel better sooner, and recently I've been around lots of sick people and haven't been sick in over a year. I feel that I've challenged my immune system like it's naturally supposed to be challenged, and strengthened it as a result. 
1	During my pregnancy, I found out that I had a condition that had a high risk of early delivery. Through research, I tried to best guess the chance I had at delivering and how much the prescribed treatment (progesterone suppositories) would lower it. I also looked up statistics on survival of babies at a given weeks gestation, to make me feel better at the chances of my baby's survival if I did go into early labor. In the end I was fine and stayed pregnant until my exact due date. So my son was born on his exact due date.
-1	this has never happened to me, i always research my symptoms and then go to the doctor to see if the internet was right or wrong. then ask the dr why its this and not these other things.;
-1	I have had a gastric bypass with many complications.  I have had surgery, multiple procedures, medications and lifestyle changes.  Using all of these, and the information I have been given, I am able to manage these problems.
1	I've had to demonstrate knowledge of a specific medical issue with my own doctor. I was diagnosed with something she had heard of but wasn't really familiar with. I would conduct research etc and report back to her what I found and she would record for reference with future patients. 
1	My mother-in-law was running a fever of 104 and I noticed she wasn't very coherent so made sure she went to the ER as soon as possible. I made sure someone stayed with her at all times since she was not 100% coherent.
1	I took my godmother to the emergency room for a mild chest pain, which was her compliant at the time. After reading the emergency test results and medicines prescribed, I was able to understand what her underlying medical issues are, which was proved right when we later visited her regular doctor as she explained everything to us. 
-1	A time where I was presented with the knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was at the clinic with my doctor who explained to me the problems that I had with my health.
1	"My sister was having severe pain in her lower leg, for no apparent reason. She was a smoker at the time. I suggested she go to the ER because it could be serious. She declined, because it was ""just leg pain."" She was in ICE 2 days later for a pulmonary embolism. The leg pain had been a blood clot. It broke free and went to her lungs. It could have killed her. Had she gone in when I suggested, things would have been much better for her ."
-1	I am an ultrasound tech for my profession.  I had a pt that had experienced sudden weight loss, new onset diabetic and several other symptoms that were side effects of pancreatic cancer.  I scanned her pancreas and found a mass in the head.  I took the information to the radiologist and he did not agree.  I went above him and took the info to the physician and he tested specifically for it and foudn it to be positive for panc ca
1	When I was in the jungle in Thailand with three other people, we spent several nights with tribal people.  On the first night, the woman whose hut we were staying in had a very badly broken arm.  She had broken it a couple of days earlier.  Pierre and I talked about it and agreed to clean it up and set it together, knowing that she would probably get gangrene and die if something wasn't done.  
-1	Most employers are concerned about worker safety since injuries or other workplace incidents can impact productivity, morale, and insurance rates, while also leaving the organization
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when my daughter got sick. I took her temperature and gave her cold press to relieve her pain. I also gave her probiotics and other good food to make her feel better.
1	After graduating from college I had a degree in biochemistry. Quite a few years later, I completed 1 semester in a medical technology program.
1	I am familiar with the symptoms and numerical glucose values of diabetic persons who are beginning to have an insulin reaction so I was able to tell when a young boy I knew was in this situation though no one else around him was aware of it. This allowed me to react quickly, grab his blood sugar test kit and test his blood to see if the situation was an emergency.
-1	I don't really have experience except from reading online and luckily I've only had two medical issues, both having to do with my kidneys. I've learned from the doctors and WebMD about supplements and dietary adjustments that would decrease my risk of kidney stones. Otherwise, I really do not have much knowledge on medical issues.
1	When my grandmother was sick, I was two years removed from college and working in a lab.   This made is much easier to help her and my father when going over options for medical decisions
-1	I had my appendix taken out a few years ago. I had a lot of paperwork and discussions with my doctor and the surgeon.
1	I'm not really sure, probably when I got tested for thyroid problems because I did a bunch of research beforehand. It turned out that I did not have any abnormal thyroid condition.
1	I injured my back and began going in for treatments to help with the pain.  I began having pain in my sciatica nerve, and explained this to the doctor.  He didn't believe me because I hadn't had a specific injury that caused this pain.  I explained the pain, and all of the information regarding it, and he finally believed me.
1	I can't think of a specific acute experience but my mother taught me how to read a nutrition label, count calories, and assess whether said calories are empty or nutritional. I could just do better at following that info. 
1	Blood pressure issues.  I know from seeing various family members who had severe high blood pressure what kind of issues can occur.  This was enough for me to decided to address my blood pressure issues with my doctor.
-1	I needed to get a blood transfusion for and ulcer. I wasn't sure how bad it was but relied on my knowledge and common sense to get myself taken care of.
-1	I went to the doctor and thought I had a UTI. The doctor confirmed this and said I should be a doctor. I knew the symptoms and that there was a chance of this or another diagnosis. 
-1	I had found a lump in my breast and had to take the steps to have testing done.  I first went to my obgyn who then referred me to a radiologist to have a mammamogram done.
1	My mom has been diagnosed and survived 4 different cancers. Likewise, my sister in law is a PA. Personally, I have been power lifting for over 4 years therefore understand about the human body and food consumption 
1	I noticed spotting after menopause and knew that it could be serious so I went in for a check-up.  I did have an issue and it was caught in time.
1	My mother was diagnozed with Alzheimer's disease at age 76.  At the time, I read that both high doses of vitamin e and hormone replacement therapy could slow the rpgress of the disease.  In addition, vitamin B12 shots administered monthly would also be beneficial.  I convinced her primary care physician to introduce these supplements into her protocol of care and she remained on a stable plateau of forgetfulness for the next six years, with marked improvement in her mood and sociability.  She died of pneumonia at age 82, before Alzheimer's progressed to its inevitable awful end.
-1	There are time when I may try to self-diagnose at home. It worries me at time when doing so, but I have to go to the doctor as well, and there are a number of times when the doctor gave me the same answer I already figured out myself.
1	I have had check up throughout my entire life. My father was also in the hospital quite often because of a couple different health conditions that he has. I also spent a week in the hospital when I was younger for about 2 weeks because I have a very high fever and pneumonia.
-1	When I was given my lab results while in the Drs office I asked them before I looked at my copies if everything looked good and the nurse said yes everything is perfect so I looked over the reference ranges on all tests done. I found 3 blood tests that were flagged as abnormal and one was really low compared to what the reference range showed for Vitamin D and I was very deficient on paper. I told the DR my findings and he said ohhh just go out in the sun more. Well I talked to a nurse practitioner about it on a follow up appt and she put me on Vitamin D3 supplements for 3 months and I really felt so much better after my level was up. 
-1	When I was in school, I got sick sometimes, and would have to see the doctor. I also had to do a lot of problems like this in school.
1	My first child was born premature. He was in the NICU for a month. During that time I learned, mostly through repeated exposure, how to read a lot of what was going on around me. For instance, I could tell if a baby nearby was have real bradycardia vs. a false brady by the sounds the alarms made.
1	I experienced chest pain on the left side of my chest, so I went to the emergency room thinking I was having a heart attack.  The tests were negative.
1	I had an unusual mole on my shoulder.  It was the same color as my skin but was an unusual shape and just looked very odd.  I researched skin cancer.  I went to a dermatologist and hew was able to test it.  It was cancerous and I had it removed.  
1	I suspected that my son had autism at a very young age. When I took him to the pediatrician, he did not think that my son had autism and did not feel it was necessary to refer him for testing. I persisted and was able to get my son tested. My son was officially diagnosed with autism at the surprise of the pediatrician.
-1	My husband recently had an episode of CHF.  He's had heart disease for years.  The day he could no longer walk from one end of the house to the other, I knew he could no longer put off going to the hospital.
-1	When my mother started experiencing tension types of headaches, I suggest she try to work to loosen the muscles in her neck and shoulders to prevent these headaches. She began stretching each morning and the headaches stopped.
1	I have made sure that my kids have all their vaccinations because I know that the chance of serious vaccination side effects is much smaller than the chance of getting a dangerous disease if you're not vaccinated.
1	I was a pharmacy tech student for over a year. We had tests on the subject and I did well, especially in medical terminology. I have been telling doctors for nine years about chronic back pain, and kept getting sent to do physical therapy which wasn't helping, they tell me I need to exercise and lose some weight but I actually have arthritis and 2 herniated discs shown by an MRI I finally talked someone into doing last year.
1	I have Multiple Sclerosis. One symptom I used to suffer from is extensive pain and numbness in my arms overnight. After extensive research I concluded that water fasting would help improve my condition. After 14 days of water fasting the symptom among many others has vanished.
1	Twelve years ago I was diagnosed with presumed ocular histoplasmosis. It was an emergency situation that I had to make a decision regarding my eyes by putting trust in the doctors. I asked my personal eye doctor a lot of questions and he was able to help me with my decision to have treatment on my eye.
1	I check my weight daily and some days it's increased substantially despite no real change in my diet. This seems to happen most often after I've eaten at a restaurant. Knowing that salty foods can cause the body to hold water for a longer period of time, I can conclude that restaurants use high amounts of salt in their foods and that shows up on the scale as increased weight from excess water in the body.
1	Previously I was thought to have hypertension.  My doctor wanted my cholesterol reduced by 15% in the span of 6 months.  I actively took medication and my cholesterol reduced by 40%
1	I knew that a loved one had a bowel blockage that needed to be addressed. It wasn't because the doctors only focused on the fact that that person had cancer. They refused to look at anything else. It was a hard battle to win.
1	An experience I had in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I when my toddler daughter fell from a tree and cut her arm. She was frantic but I observed that the cut was relatively minor, was an isolated injury, did not appear to need stitches and there were no apparent breaks or rapid swelling. I soothed her tears by reassuring her as I cleaned her cut thoroughly and applied pressure to stop the bleeding. Then I applied a sterile bandage to the wound and walked her through some gentle range of motion maneuvers to verify that her wrist and elbow were unaffected. Since everything checked out OK, I determined that a trip to a physician was probably not necessary. I cleaned and dressed the wound, changed her bandage over the following week, and her healing progressed without incident.
1	I had to determine whether to vaccinate my child.  This led to taking the risk of having autism.  I realized that research was trash and did it anyways.
1	When my daughter was little, she was prone to very high fever when sick, often over 104-105 degrees. I was aware that we were approaching dangerous territory.  Early on, doctors told us that we could overlap Acetaminophen and Ibuprofen every 4 hours because that would allow us to wait the recommended time between the same medication while shortening the time between medications.  We continued this practice, understanding that we were not exceeding recommended dosage, when she would have high fevers. 
-1	Usually I know when something is serious or not, because I try to read a lot of medical research and articles about misconceptions people might have. 
1	My son was being evaluated by a cardiologist for a heart condition. The doctor was explaining to me that his pulmonary valve has stenosis and hence had a diagnosis of pulmonary valve stenosis. Because I had recently took a course in college on the heart and how it functions I knew what the word stenosis meant. I also knew the hearts structure and functioning. Without the course I took in college I probably would not have known these terms nor had an understanding how the heart functions or its structures. Because I had prior knowledge of the heart it made it much easier for me to ask questions of the doctor about the diagnosis. It made me feel more at ease when communicating with the doctor because I knew the basic medical terms when referring to the heart. 
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues by self-diagnosing my eye infection as a sty. I went to the doctor and told him that I was developing a small sty around my right eye and he confirmed my suspicions.
-1	When my daughter got a skin allergy reaction when she was 5, i immediately knew  it was food poison by just looking at the color of her skin
1	I had a rash on my leg and suspected that it was Eczema. I went to the doctor and he diagnosed that.
-1	Well I do not have to much experience with examples that I are listed above but I do have basic knowledge of health and medical issues. Well primary my knowledge comes from my wife who is self taught health adviser. Also my mom is a health aid she have been working for 20 years now. Sometimes I do help her with her patients, I usually drive her and her patients to and from doctors appointments. So generally my experience comes from my family, which I am thankful for, because I found a lot of things that will be very useful regarding my health and medical issues.
1	When my dad was diagnosed with kidney cancer, we both talked about the face that his 1 year survival rate was only about 15%. Particularly interesting was the fact that he had a rare form of kidney cancer and his next door neighbor died of the same cancer a few decades before making us wonder if there was an unusual cluster happening.
1	Often I don't know much about what is going on with me medically, once I get the results of blood tests or other diagnostic information is when I start studying and trying to understand. I once got pregnant while using an IUD and being on the pill. I had an intrauterine and an ectopic pregnancy at the same time. They always teach reproduction at the end of anatomy and physiology courses (6/6 times for me it was at the end) so it's usually rushed and cursory, so I needed the doctors to explain a ton to me. Like I didn't know that ectopic fetus' (feti?) don't grow at the same rate as intrauterine ones. Anyway, all the things I learned through that experience, like that I have a bicornuate uterus that makes my IUD less effective, were things I had to explain clearly to new health care providers as I have moved around.
1	I've had many experiences in my life where I felt I demonstrated knowledge of health and medical issues. A few instances that come to mind are when my children were younger. I use to be able to diagnose their issues with an 80 percent efficiency. This was mainly during the ages of one and five. I felt as they got older my ability to pinpoint their illness was not as spot on as when they were younger. I sometimes can make an educated guess as to what is ailing them, today. 
1	Growing up, our maid's daughter had epileptic fits. One night in the middle of the night, I was woken up by my sister who was frantic. Janelle, (maid's daughter) was having a fit and I knew enough to keep her from swallowing her tongue using a spoon and then driving her to the ER. (My parents were both out of town).
-1	I was told I could possibly be at risk of not being able to have children when I went to the hospital a few years ago due to stomach cramping. I questioned them and they could not explain that to me. I asked why they thought that and if they had any proof and they could not. I told them they shoulndn't be telling people that. 
1	I noticed that I have a blue ring around my sclera. I knew that this could be due to an issue with my collagen. I went to several different types of doctors and was told by all of them that I have a strong likelihood of having a collagen defect. I was diagnosed with Ehlers Danlos syndrome shortly after. 
-1	My daughter was born with Sturge Webber which is seizure disorder. I had to learn all about it so that I could make sure she got the care she needed.
1	A few years ago, my youngest son, who was 7 at the time, was hit by a car.  He suffered a traumatic brain injury.  He was on life support and in a coma for 3 weeks. He then was placed in a rehab hospital for many more weeks.  I had to quickly learn what was happening around me, the machines, the medications, and the monitors.  Nothing existed outside of his hospital room.
1	My doctor told me that a new medicine I could take has a 25 percent chance to cause nausea.he said it would help me though if I wanted to chance it.i figured the odds were in my favor.
1	When my girlfriend got very sick with some weird symptoms, I was able to tell her which ones were concerning and which ones were perfectly normal. 
-1	I know when I am having trouble with my Cholesterol.  I know when I start feeling a certain way -- tired ect. that I am not treating it like I should be.
1	I don't know that I have many, just that I have have a few surgeries and regularly see a neurologist for migraines.
1	I am a registered sonographer so I get alot of people sending me their ultrasounds to look at baby or tell them what the gender is ect. THis will get annoying after a set of time but when you see a ultraound of a friend that is bad. you never stop thinking about it
1	To be honest, I'm not sick very often and I haven't had much experience with any life-threatening diseases.  I don't call the doctor at the first sniffle, but I do call if I do need to go see him.
1	generally everytime I go to the doctor or er, because I've had biology and medical classes and know a thing or two
-1	I have had to have many medical tests along the way. I also dealt with a sick mother (kidney disease) and a child with medical illnesses since birth (premature child 26 weeks). I have had to have more than my share of medical experience. 
1	I went into my doctor to discuss my mental health options for anxiety.  I knew there was different classes of anxiety and depression medications, but I had a hard time figuring out what would be best for me.  My spouse had to help me figure out which would be safe for me so I don't have negative side effects like I had had before.  I couldn't separate the thoughts of the side effects to the physiological effects.  
-1	Someone was recently mentioning renal failure. I knew what this was just because my wife had explained it to me just recently. 
-1	After I had prostate cancer surgery and was in the process of recovering, I developed lympidemia in my left leg. For a large portion of my life I had been in excellent physical condition. As a result I knew that if after recovery I stayed active there was a very good chance that my swelling go down and stay down with regular exercise. This knowledge was gained through several sources including my doctors and previous trainers.
1	I gave birth to my son at 23 weeks (17 weeks early).  During his NICU stay, the doctor was trying to explain to me what problems we were looking at long term for him (ex: Cerebral Palsy, blindness, lung problems) but, before the doctor could finish I was already listing all the different possibilities to him.  He was amazed at my knowledge of the all that was involved in my having my son so early.
-1	When my husband had cancer I had to learn a lot of information. He had issues that were never discussed with us about his long term problems from head and neck radiation.
1	My knowledge on health and Medical issues is really only valuable to one person, me. I know how i feel, i know how i don't feel, I have a vested interest in my health and well being that encourages learning about whatever symptoms i may be dealing with at any given time, due to this i usually am pretty educated as to what i may likely have and why, or what i most likely do NOT have and why. I have noticed that doctors have seem to be thankful of this at many of my appointments and maybe even a little impressed! One time in particular i correctly diagnosed my skin condition and the doctor got it wrong in fact i had to really advocate for myself to finally get the medication that would treat the condition i was convinced i had, and finally when i saw another doctor he agreed with my diagniosis and treatment was immediately successful. The prior doctor had told me flatly that the condition i was concerned about was familiar to her and i DID NOT have it, in fact I DID! 
1	In boy scouts we had to learn and demonstrate first aid. I learned all the basics. Also in health class at school.
1	My husband has diabetes and so i learned alot from him. I couple years ago my doctor told me that my blood sugar was borderline but i could reduce it by changing my diet. I was fully aware of what that meant and the implications of it and i knew fully what she was talking about and what to do
1	MY GIRLFRIEND IS DIABETIC, WHEN HERE BLOOD SUGAR IS EXTREMELY LOW HAS THE APPEARANCE OF BEING SAD, IF YOU ASK HER A FEW QUESTIONS AND SHE IS UNABLE TO ANSWER THEM YOU KNOW HER BLOOD SUGAR IS LOW AND SHE'S NOT SAD.
-1	I am starting mammograms and I ask my doc questions.  I have breast cance in the family.  I've already decided what I'll do if I'm diagnosed with cancer.  I'd rather go into doc office with information I've gotten.
1	When I last went to the doctor, I brought along with me a detailed list of my symptoms as I recorded them when they occurred. Along with this, I made sure to ask questions about certain health conditions that I thought I had a higher probability of having.
1	We have three kids.  Without preventive measures, if one gets sick, we'll all get sick.  Any time one of them has vomiting or diarrhea, we take precautions by sanitizing everything by cleaning and spraying disinfectant and quarantining when  possible.  By taking these measures, I'm sure we've saved ourselves hours of agony.
1	My son was having lots of issues with his ears.  I suspected that he had an ear infection.  I took him to the doctor to get checked out, and he indeed had an ear infection.  I was lucky enough to be able to try an alternative therapy to antibiotics, which I had heard about from a nurse friend of mine.  The doctor allowed us to try it and come back in a few days to see if it had worked.  It did (it was mullein garlic ear drops) and he avoided antiobiotics.
1	When my mother was ill I had to help her with her medical issues.  I did the best I could and I felt like a very competent person in regards to medical issues.
-1	2 years ago I had my son via c-section. 10 months post-partum I had picked him up along with a 24 pack of water and I ended up getting a hernia. I told the doctor and they agreed with me. 
1	 I fell and scratched my wrist in my front yard one morning. When I put my hand in my pocket about 2 hrs later I was shocked by the pain from my hand. My fingers were swollen and red in just a couple of hours. I went to the VA clinic and was told I must have had a sting because infection didn't occur as quickly as that. I went home and tried to rest but I realized I was feverish.  I went to the hospital emergency rooms and they immediately admitted me with a MRSA infection. I was told that had I followed clinic instructions I probably would not have lived.
1	My sister was describing pain in her abdomen,  After showing me where the pain was I told her she may have appendicitis.  After going to the hospital it was confirmed she had it,
1	I was diagnosed with shingles and I had already had read up on the shingles symptoms and side effects. I felt as though I was equipt enough to understand my condition better because if this. 
-1	I am able to understand when something is diagnosed to me. I understand that antibiotics are only for bacterial infections so if it is most likely a virus they should be avoided so you don't get immune.
1	Just reading random articles and looking to understand more common health occurrences and illnesses beyond a generic understanding of what most individuals would have.
1	There was some white sags in my throat once, I already know what they are, is an infection Ive already had before, so all I needed to get was some antibiotics, I told a doctor friend of myne to give me a prescription. 
1	With the exception of minor things such as headaches, stomachaches, sore throats, colds and the flu, I am not sure if I ever have really demonstrated much knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	My father was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis years ago and he had a very hard time being able to understand any of the information that he got. Since I had been in college taking medical and biological classes, I was able to break it down for him and help him make the decisions that he needed to.
1	My mother is a medical social worker and my father is a healthcare consultant. My mother in particular has influenced me knowing a good deal about medicine. I regularly went to the hospital with her from a young age and volunteered at her hospital as a teenager as well. I also had more serious medical problems in my late teen and early 20s that required a good deal of medical attention that made me more knowledge about medicine and tests and procedures than I ever cared to be unless I was attending medical school.
1	I fell down a flight of concrete stairs once and got pretty banged up but felt OK to walk and did not immediately go to the hospital because I knew that I did not have a concussion. I knew to go to the hospital the next day as my neck was extremely sore and my hand had bruised severely, and I knew that I had at least one broken bone in my hand.
1	One time, I had to go to the dentist and ended up needing an antibiotic for an infection. I told them to give me Clindamycin instead of Erythromycin because I had previously had an infection that was resistant to Erythromycin and I was allergic to Penicillin.
1	My son was born with syndactyl (webbed toes) and his left hand was webbed also.  During that experience I did a lot of research in order to decide what to do for him.  We consulted with several different doctors and specialists.  (Part of that was due to us moving and having to find new doctors).  I felt pretty knowledgeable about his condition.
1	My mother has serious health conditions, and has had 8 major surgeries.  Her most recent 30 years have been rough (that's more than half of her life).  I learned a lot growing up with a sickly mother.
-1	A few years ago I was diagnosed early with the full-blown flu. I know something was out of the ordinary because my body aches were very extreme. I knew it was the flu and luckily got it before it became worse. 
1	My grandfather suffered from a heart attack several years ago.  He was told to stop using tobacco after surgery and he could reduce his change of another heart problem by a significant percentage.  I helped him to understand how important it was to stop using tobacco.
-1	I had a cyst in my hand when I was 19 years old, but did not know what it was at the time. I used the internet to look up my symptoms and found out that it was a cyst. When I went to the doctor, I told them what I thought it was based on my research and it turned out that I was correct.
1	I cannot say that it really demonstrates my knowledge on medical issues but I have clearly learned many things regarding the subject. Many things I learned since my daughter was born and she had all kinds of typical for her age issues. Also when she was found with the mild hearing loss I learned a lot of her condition.
1	When my husband had an iliostomy and I had to help him change it and had to deal with giving him IV meds and had to deal with dr and insurance companies and everything else as well as taking care of my two small kids.
1	When I was younger, I had contracted Mononucleosis. After I had completely recovered, I had developed lumps on my shins. Most people would automatically assume that they were shin splints, but I knew better. I met with one Dr. who diagnoses me with shin splints even though I told him that I was not an active person. I also showed him my research results which suggested that I had Erythema Nodosum, which is common after contracting Mononucleosis. That Dr. told me I was wrong, so I went to a Dermatologist instead who confirmed that I was absolutely correct.
-1	Brain Tumors a condition called Neurofibromatosis. Very serious. I have both and right now my daughter has one of these diseases. Also premature babies my first born was born at 25 weeks. At 1lb 3oz. Over 4 months in the hospital
1	i am an optometry student so i often talk to friends about their eye problems and help them especially with proper contact lens care
1	I have Hypothyroidism.   I have been getting treatment for years.  I have normal numbers but still have symptoms.  My doctor does not listen to me even though I know my body better than anyone else.  This frustrates me because I have done my research and know that other people have the same symptoms as me despite having normal numbers
1	I have a good knowledge of conditions that i have had in the past. There was a time when i had to have a series of test done and through the research to find out what it could be i was able to help the doctor know what test to try
-1	Two weeks ago, my puppy got ear infection and started feeling really bad. I took care of him for about ten days. I cleaned his ear, put medicine on it, changed the gauze, and closely kept an eye on him. I knew which medicine to use, and how often to use. Also, I knew how effectively to clean his ear and take care of the infected area. Soon enough, my dog got a lot better and now his ear infection is completely gone.
-1	There are many, but because I have a nursing background, most of my friends come to me for medical advice and to explain what the doctor told them.  Before I give any medical advice or explanations, I always ask if they have been to their doctor and what did he tell them.  
-1	actually in very difficult to understand simple read some terms and diagnoses, that's why I find it hard to understand and I need some to explain many times the diagnosis
1	I helped my dad take my grandfather to the emergency room when he was sick. The doctor told us what was wrong with my grandfather using medical terms. I understood this and told my dad in more simple words.
1	I had a liver transplant in 2003. Since then I have become the go to expert for the people I know on anything to do with the liver. Or any organ transplant. Or really any major surgery. Even veterinary questions. I really dont know that much about the medical knowledge behind liver transplants, but I can advise on how to approach the procedure, and what to expect to happen after the procedure (which is more important to the patient, anyway). I know I have been able to put some peoples minds at ease who have experienced a transplant, so that makes me feel good. In 2017 I had a kidney transplant, so now Im an expert on that, too.
1	My colleague cut himself. So I got a first aid kit, wrapped the cut up with ice, had him hold his cut hand over his head for a half hour, then applied wiped the cut with alcohol and applied cream to prevent infections, and bandaged him up. 
-1	I believe that doctors are incompetent. Every experience I have had with an doctor has been miserable. There have been doctors that have told me I wasnt a virgin, steered me in the wrong way as far as medicine and about health decisions 
1	A friend began suffering from terrible migraines, but didn't want to go to the doctor. I asked him different questions to identify the cause, including whether he had any dental issues. He didn't see the connection, but admitted that he had an exposed nerve in one of his teeth. I suggested he stopped avoiding the dentist because that may be the cause of his migraines. Within a few days of going to the dentist, his migraines stopped.
1	I have a chronic endocrine disorder that I diagnosed myself based on research done in medical journals. I had been to a variety of doctors who missed the symptoms. Once I found out that the disorder sounded like me, I went to a doctor who confirmed the diagnosis through blood work and other testing. I might still be without diagnosis had I not been able to find it myself. 
1	I have a lot of health problems and so does my family. I also have have a job in the healthcare field before. 
1	I verbally walked a patient through what will happen during a cerebral angiogram from start to finish.  What they will experience and and to expect from the dr.'s.  I have had these before myself and i also schedule them.
1	I was a coach for many years and I would teach my athletes about proper diet, hydration, and exercising. I believed in helping the athletes be healthier and better conditioned to be able to handle sports and injuries.
1	I had a friend that I was helping out when I noticed that she was having problems. First it was just not being able to remember but then she couldn't add and that was not like this smart individual so I asked her a few questions and I told her she needed to go to the doctor right away.  I was right she had a brain tumor that was causing her trouble.
1	When i was Dx with fibroids it was a scary time. I relied on my knowledge of medical procedures to be able to explain to family members the extent of damage done to my body. I was able to explain how the symptoms I was experiencing how they would have long term affects on my body. I was also able to make educated decisions on my healthcare. 
1	I was with my grandma when she was diagnosed with dementia.  Based on movies I had seen, I was able to question the doctor about what was to come.  
-1	I am Trained as AN CERT ( community emergency response team) member a program funded by FEMA and have basic and intermediate first aide training. I also assist at local red cross functions.
-1	I had a real bad sore throat a few years ago and I had a feeling that I had strep throat. I was correct with my diagnosis, I realized that I was having to much pain so I knew it couldn't be a regular sore throat. my thinking was confirmed by my doctor. 
1	I had a mammogram that was suspicious and needed a breast biopsy. I asked to have an ultrasound or MRI to confirm before surgery. They did as I requested and found it was a fatty tumor, no surgery needed
-1	About 15 years ago my primary physician was completing my annual exam and asked if I was experiencing any pain in my upper back.  I told her that I was aware of the curve in my spin but that I had attributed the discomfort that I was having from the years of pushing Z-racks at work. She prompted informed me of the medical term for the physical condition and recommended that I keep an eye on it.  She did send me to have xrays done to begin tracking.
1	I had a ingrown toenail that I had to have a doctor remove a few years ago. I knew what an ingrown toenail looked like and the health risks that it came with.
1	A few years ago, I lost about 70 pounds without help from a medical practitioner. I just made a switch to eating whole foods and exercising daily. My doctor always wanted to make it a thyroid issue, but I firmly believed that once the change was made the thyroid would follow. It did.
1	I can't be specific. However, I learned about edema in the hospital. I knew that this was a serious issue and could be life threatening. This information was instrumental in helping me to understand the facts of a condition. 
1	I had many experiences practicing as an emergency medical technician for a fire department. I would have to obtain histories, perform physical exams, treat some injuries, provide health advice, and come up with a differential diagnosis.
1	Apologies in advance if this isn't exactly the type of experience that you're looking for, but it's the only thing that I can think of that somewhat relates. Whenever I run across something that I don't know about (especially a health issue), I typically try to do as much research on it as I can. As mentioned before, I suffer from IBS. I tried to do what research that I could on my own, but I eventually had to cave and go to the doctor when it didn't seem to get any better (it's a good thing that I did, because I likely also had a stomach ulcer). Anyway, fast forward about half a year later, and it seems that my IBS is getting worse and my medicine doesn't seem to be helping that much. I go to the doctor again to get a different medicine, which also doesn't seem to be doing much good. In the meantime, I've been keeping a food journal and doing more research on my own. After a couple of months of pain, I figure out the problem--I've developed fructose malabsorption. After cutting out soda and other things high in fructose, the problem is as fixed as it can be.
1	After a mishap on the bicycle immediately after getting home I thoroughly cleaned the scrape and applied Neosporin then covered the wound with a bandage.  Over the next couple days I regularly cleaned the wound and watched for any signs of infection.
-1	I had to go to the doctor with my mother when she was having a stroke and I had to explain all of her symptoms to not only the doctor, but the paramedics and nurses as well. Explaining her symptoms directly helped them get my mother care faster.
1	When my mom had a heart event.  She had to be shocked back to life twice, and put into a medically induced coma for 2 days while her body recovered before they allowed her to wake up and took her off of all of the medications. I had to deal with all of the inputs from the doctor's on if she would wake up, when she would wake up, how should would be if and when she woke up as well as medications and after her open heart surgery, how to take care of her when she returned home.  It was 3 weeks of being in the hospital looking after her with my husband, pulling night shift and working to be a patient advocate.
1	When I was told about ear infections, I knew most of the information because I had had ear infections in the past. I knew any technical terms and what causes them and the treatments for them.
1	I had trouble breathing through my nose during exercise. It turns out, it was because I had a blockage in my nose called nasal polyps. I had heard about this from reading things online about congestion. I realized I needed to treat it with nasal spray so I went to my doctor about it.
1	I had a perianal abscess a few years ago. last year I started feeling like I was getting another one. I went to my doctor, explained what I was feeling and the doctor examined me. He told me I was right and started me on antibiotics.
-1	I was diagnosed with unexplained high blood pressure. Since there was no explanation, it has made it challenging to figure out how to solve the issue and avoid heart damage in the future.  
-1	I have had to have over 12 surgery's and many more biopsy's in my life. i have had bone grafts done to breast biopsy's.. i have a lot of experience in the hospital care world. Today i do home care for a quadriplegic between his and myself we have plenty of experince.
-1	In 2004, I took a bad fall in front of the hospital I worked at which resulted in a fractured right hip.  It required surgery and 4 weeks later after a rehab stay I was home and regaining my mobility and living life at a much slower pace.  It was the first time I was incapacitated and had to rely on others for help.  I knew that I needed to follow the dr's orders and almost 9 months later I was back to work.  I did everything as ordered and because I was familiar with medical jargon I was a good patient.
1	My mother is a type 1 diabetic which she got in her 20s. So since then she is well versed in medical knowledge and keeps on it. She kept up on me as a kid and into my 20s. I think I learned a lot from that and apply what I learned from my mom to own health. I also consult with her still. 
1	I knew antibiotics have to be finished completely. so With my knowledge I helped my friend to take the full course rather stopping it in the middle after she started feeling okay.
1	I went to college for nutrition/dietetic technology, so I am aware of the values of the lab tests and what they should be. I also know how I could improve my diet to lost weight and help my cholesterol numbers. I am also very aware of having to take care of myself and particularly my heart to help me live a better life. I have also suffered from depression, anxiety and PTSD for over 25 years, so I know how to avoid triggers and help myself so I can stay on a low dose of medicine.
1	I recall when my son had an accident by the door slamming to his fingers. He almost lost the tip of his fingers the doctors told me that I have the option of either amputate or go for a surgery to try to save the fingers but the chances are very slim. I asked them to give written information about the surgery and the likelihood of success. I took my time to go through the information provided and based on what they told me and my knowledge and I decided that he will go for surgery. It was one of the best decisions i have ever made, four years later my son's finger look pretty normal.
1	19 years ago my doctor told me I was diabetic. He knew me well, and said he'd give me 6 months to learn as much as I could about it and to see if I could control it on my own without medicine. If I didn't have it under control within that time (or wasn't showing improvement on subsequent visits prior to the 'deadline') he'd prescribe something to control it. I had it under control within 6 weeks. Through diet and exercise maintaining extremely tight control of my blood glucose level has become routine. I'm almost always below 90 mg/dL. I get a good night's rest to not interfere with my 'dawn effect.'
-1	When I tried to lose weight a few years ago I created an eating plan that was very healthy and I actually ate everything i needed to eat and was losing weight fast without starving.
1	When I was only 16 or 17 I had a gland that was swollen.  Being that I do get nervous about health related things, I did my own research before seeing the doctor.  This was just shortly before the internet took off.  I had a book that explained what my issue was, with the specific name of the gland.  When I visited the doctor, I used that name to tell him what I thought was wrong with me.  He was very surprised that I had any idea what it was, and said that I was correct.  This example explains just many instances like this I have had in my life with doctors.  I apparently surprised them with how much I know.  I do this because it lessens anxiety to have as much information as possible.
1	I was talking to my doctor after a visit and I mentioned that I saw the AHA had changed the guidelines on cholesterol. He had heard about it too and we had a discussion about cholesterol numbers.
-1	I have low blood sugar and my doctor explained the need for me to eat 6 small meals a day and make sure I eat complex carbohydrates and protein at each of those meals.  I understand that doing this will keep my blood sugar level and I will feel better.
-1	I had high cholesterol when I went to the doctors 3 months ago. I decided to go on a vegetarian diet to lower my cholesterol and take fish oil 3 times daily.
1	When I started feeling depressed, I recognized the symptoms from my degree in psychology and was able to seek out treatment right away.
-1	I was losing weight and had no appetite. I continued going to the doctor but everything seemed normal. I ended up in the hospital with PE's. A month later I found out I had thyroid cancer. The only reason it was found was because a scan was done looking for clots. My labs had always been normal. I understood the need for surgery to remove half my thyroid to prevent it from spreading and that the clots were probably caused from that.
1	I really just use what I have been through plus what information I get while online. I like to read about things so it makes me curious to know things.
1	I'm a Registered Nurse and took care of my husband when he was sick and dying.  At that time, the doctors communicated with me as a professional most of the time and respected my knowledge of medical issues.  We worked as collaborators.  
1	when my husband fell and broke his nose, he also got a concussion.  He kept asking me the same questions over and over, which indicated short term memory loss. He also lost a lot of blood.  The paramedics came  and took him in the ambulance.  I called them because I thought there might be a head or neck injury, and I didnt want to move him and make it worse,
1	I was able to cure a bout of strep throat in myself without the help of antibiotics.  When I found out that I had it I researched it and discovered that I could use household products to kill the bacteria and that it would likely go away on its own if I waited long enough.
1	I had an anxiety attack and anxiety issues that caused me to over think some things. I meditated and calmed myself down to help clear my mind and decided that what I was worried about is nothing. 
1	No specific past experience comes to mind. I am no health expert, though I suffer from several health issues. However I am confident enough in my understanding of my own health conditions, so that if someone were suffering from the same symptoms, I would definitely be able to give them some good recommendations on how to treat it, and I would be able to explain the cause of the condition and how it works.
-1	When I was 6 I was diagnosed with ADD. However, my parents didn't believe it was a real thing and I certainly did not want to be that kid who had to take medicine and stuff to be smart so we went about 4 years struggling in school and at home before we decided to do our own research and I fit a lot of the criteria. When I started my medicine it was nota  good experience. I tried about 8 different kinds before I found one that worked for me. It was a lot of going back and forth and working with the doctor to find the best approach for me and to figure out what to do. 
-1	I've been an advocate for those diagnosed with multiple sclerosis. Neurologists all over the country give their newly diagnosed patients my phone number and email because they find that I'm better at explaining things than they are sometimes because I've lived with MS for 40 years. This doesn't say that I can do percentages anymore, but I have been a great  layperson neurological and psychological source to countless people I've been told for more years than I can count:-)
1	I am a veterinary technician student, so I demonstrate this knowledge all the time. I have a tendency to have my doctor talk to me in medical terminology. If I don't understand something because it is not used in animal health I will let her know.
1	I was one of the first to see the signs that my brother has diabetes. I recall his sweet smelling breath and pointing out he was always thirsty.
-1	Recently i got a skin allergy on my back. I went to doctor for check up. I was worried because it is increasing day by day. Doctor told me not to worry that much he has given some medications. And it was healed after few days when i started medication. 
-1	When I felt a lump in my right breast and immediately went to see my doctor. He checked it out and sent me to get a mammography and I found out it was caused by a car accident, I was in.
1	A friend and I were out at a restaurant one night late after having worked together, when he started seizing. We rushed to the hospital and from there I had to describe to the doctors what had happened and help take care of his information as he was unconscious. He recovered and was diagnosed with epilepsy.  
1	Every time I deal with a medical professional, it demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues. I allowed myself to put my trust in someone who is an expert in this area, and I am an active participant, making sure to give as much accurate information as I can, as well as asking all necessary questions to be well informed.
-1	I was in a severe car accident and broke my pelvic bone. I was in the emergency room for 4 hours and I saw a lot that went on at the hospital. The doctors and nurses are trying to save lives at a timely manner to get people in and out. I was sent to a private room for 3 days then released. It was a very painful recovery but with the help of therapy I made it. I am thankful.
1	I was diagnosed with thyroid cancer and needed to learn more about this disease and my options in order to make an informed decision regarding treatment, surgery, etc. I researched the best area doctors and surgeons and got a second opinion before making my decision on how to manage this diagnosis. 
1	I deal with medical issues on a daily basis at work. I am a medical coder and biller. In order to bill the insurance companies correctly, I need to code the patient's illness and care correctly. However, a strong background in the medical terminology is needed in order to make sure every supply and illness is properly coded. I often need to assist my colleagues in  this area, I am the only one in the office who is certified, so the other secretaries look to me for assistance. 
1	One time, my brother got sick while my parents were out of town. I took care of him by doing everything my mom would do for me when I was sick. I made him stay in bed, drink lots of fluids, and take some aspirin every four hours.
1	For about six years, I was the full time caretaker for my grandmother. I had to know what medications she was allergic to, and monitor her pulse and blood pressure daily, and I had to adjust dosage of some of her medications depending on what the readings were, per her doctor's instructions.
1	I helped my best friend lose over 100 pounds by guiding him thru calorie counting and eating healthier meals. His blood pressure went down, his doctor told him his BMI is now in a healthy range and he was no longer on track to need medication for diabetes. He was constantly asking me questions about how to proceed and went 100% by the advice and guidance I gave him.
1	I remember learning and reading about how to get rid of tics before going camping with my friend because I had a huge fear about them. Learning about this knowledge helped me help my friend, who ended up being the one to catch a tic. I was able to help him work through the process of removing the tic before it burrowed down too far.
-1	I have had a lot of terrible scarring issues that are too traumatic to write about. I have very bad PTSD from everything and am constantly in fear. 
-1	When I was dealing with acute bronchitis, I realized there was only so much I could do aside from taking antibiotics. I realized there were certain foods that actually helped me feel better
1	I have two children.  Through experience and knowledge and I am pretty capable of knowing when to take them to the doctor versus just resting at home and when they are contagious or not.
1	My dad is a diabetic.  I have conversations with him often about his condition.  I often give him suggestions on foods that he could eat that are low in carbohydrates to try to help him lower his blood sugar. 
1	My youngest daughter had a febrile seizure. We called the ambulance, went to the ER and then followed up with our pediatrician. Because of all the information I received during that first time, when she had a second febrile seizure two weeks later, I felt confident enough to remain calm, put her on her side, and just ride it out. I knew, however, that if she didn't come out of it within 5 minutes, that we should call 911.
1	My son has allergies and acid reflux and I have always managed his medical issues with medicine by measuring appropriate doses and managing his diet.
-1	My son had quite a few ear infections as a baby and into toddlerhood.  When my daughter was born, I knew the signs to look for in order to take her to be seen.  Luckily, she never had an eardrum rupture (as my son did) due to my knowledge of the ear canal and what to watch for.  I felt more on top of things with my sencond child, medically speaking.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health was when I went to the hospital for having gastroenteritis. I had a lot of questions on why this was inside of me and exactly what I got it from.
1	I have a friend that is diabetic. She has a pump that constantly pumps insulin in to her. We went on a trip to New York and we were sightseeing. Suddenly Christine did not seem right. She seemed spacey but said she felt fine. I stopped at a street vendor and got her an ice cream cone as that was all that was around. She had that and was just fine after that. I knew what to watch for with her and what to do. 
1	I had chest pains and knew I needed to call the doctor's office. I read up on symptoms and talked to the scheduler about various options. I did not go to the emergency room but made an appointment for the first possible opening with a physician. 
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when i started having symptoms of a concussion. I knew what to look for and what it was. 
-1	My grandpa came home on hospice and needed his oxygen concentrator set up at his house. The hospice company delivered it but no one stuck around to hook him up to it. I was able to figure out from some past experience how to add water to the cannister and set the appropriate flow rate for him. 
-1	I studied biology and medicine in college. I read through what types of medicines there are from doctor medical to therapy medical. I studied what their responses are that occurred in the body
-1	I don't have an extreme amount of health experience or knowledge of health.  I try to stay up-to-date, like most people, but all we have to keep us up-to-date are statistics and calculations put forth by professionals in the medical field.  
1	When I had my daughter she was born with a different blood type than me and had very bad jaundice due to it. I had researched jaundice prior to her birth because my oldest child had it as well, so I had knowledge.
1	I am a Type 1 Diabetic.  Several years ago, I had to go to the hospital due to catching the flu.  I ended up staying overnight because I was dehydrated.  I had to explain to the doctor how I calculate how much insulin I need to take based upon the food that I consumed. 
1	When my son had bronchitis, I was fully able to understand the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis overall of how this would affect him at that time and also potentially in the future. 
-1	I found out over 10 years back I had a mitral valve prolapse. I knew nothing at first but learned about this through research over time. I learned this can be a genetic defect where both heart valves do not close completely. I educated myself.
-1	the only knowledge i have about health issue is the ones my doctor told me about. that is what is making this task difficult for me to handle now.
1	I guess when I get sick I am able to know the difference between viral and bacterial diseases. I am able to know that I don't always get antibiotics (they aren't always effective or useful) and that I shouldn't ask the doctor for them.
-1	I've never really had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues, but in every case i have made an effort to treat my health situation as best as possible.
-1	I've worked as a CNA for a few years.  I also have a few minor health problems. I read on health related issues occasionally too. I like to be in the know.  I'm terrible with math so all my answers are probably wrong.  
1	When I had stomach pain one night, I noticed that it didn't go away even after using the bathroom and that the pain was localized to the lower right quadrant of my stomach.  I felt like this could be appendicitis, so I went to the doctor and a CT scan confirmed this.  I had to have an appendectomy that same night.
-1	Once my knee was swollen up so bad and before we went to the doctor i looked up my symptoms via webmd and found out i had an inflammed bursa also i successfully diagnosed my wifes gall bladder attacks.
1	When I was trying to lose weight for my wedding, I vigorously kept track of the calories I consumed by reading every label and went running everyday. I made sure that I was at a calorie deficit everyday to ensure that I was losing weight.
1	I try to keep up on health related current events.  I am well versed in the flu and was actually hospitalized several years ago because I was so sick. I knew based on my symptoms and that my fever was increasing to get help.
1	My obtaining a degree in biology required me to show that I have knowledge of at least some health or medical issues. I didn't do pre-med though so I haven't had advanced studies in the subject.
-1	My mother and grandmother are both cancer patients and I attended a lot of the appointments with the many doctors and took notes for them.
1	I recently had to take my son to the doctor because he had a very high fever and a sore throat.  At the same time, he was showing flu like symptoms.  The nurse only wanted to test for strep but I asked her to test for flu as well so that we could rule out either or both.
1	The only incident that stands out was when my mother began to have somewhat of a reaction to her low blood sugar. She wasn't able to communicate very well, but i knew right away what was going on and what she needed.
-1	I was able to make informed decisions in regards to receiving eating disorder treatment. I selected the right treatment sentence for me. 
1	I was in a group of friends, when suddenly, one of our friends started to act strange. People were jumping to several conclusions of what it was, but no one really knew. I called 911, and approached my friend, to observe better. I reported to the operator that I believed my friend was having a stroke, and went through the standard diagnostics to confirm this, while we awaited an ambulance.
1	The only real experience would be when I was young in Boy Scouts and we learned first aid for many different injuries and illnesses. We demonstrated that knowledge every year in an annual first aid competition where we were given different scenarios and judged on how we handled the incident.
1	These questions were not nessasaraly about knowledge of health, they are more about the knowledge of math.  I learned a lot about my health after I blew out my knee
1	I had trouble getting pregnant so I had to do IVF. I ended up doing lots of research on my own to come up with a plan with my doctor to get pregnant. I suggested some medications that were newly researched to my doctor.
1	I guess I would talk about times that I take my kids to the doctor.  I understand what their blood pressure, temp. and other vital signs should be.  This always me to ask intelligant questions or express my concerns. 
1	I once started to feel sick and had symptoms similar to a cold. The cold lasted more than a week but everything except a cough remained. I felt like something was wrong so I looked things up and found I may have had bronchitis. I went to the doctor's office and they also agreed that I likely had bronchitis. 
-1	Get a dictionary of medical terms and look up the ones you don't know in your reading material. Use the terms in sentences until they make sense. Audit some classes having to do with nursing and medicine at your local college. Go online and read medical articles that have to do with your particular medical interests.
-1	My son has adhd and i basically did extensive research and diagnosed that he had before it was told to us by a dr. I compared many different articles and symptoms to pinpoint what i thought it may be.  This help me understand not just what he has but how it's so many similar diseases.  
1	After having my child, over time the symptoms of post partum depression began to appear. Having dealt with depression in the past I was able to recognize the symptoms. After a few triggering events everything came to a head. It was probably 3 weeks of struggling to even get out of bed that made me realize that I needed to seek help. I first reached out to ladies in my mom group who assured me that I was neither alone or losing my mind. From there I had the confidence to reach out to my doctor. At my appointment I described everything that was going on and we were able to get me on the appropriate medicine that I knew from past experience worked for me.
1	One time my friend was having pain in his chest and thought he was having a heart attack but I informed him if it was sharp pain he was probably gassy. 
1	As I have taken some science classes in college, I felt like I had the basic gist of things when I got back my annual physical results.  I was able to see and determine which indicators were normal or abnormal.  I was able to research what I didn't know and find answers to my questions.
1	I have knowledge of health and medical issues in the sense that I typically know when to go to the doctor. I know what symptoms are associated with what illnesses, and I know what to expect from treatment. For instance, I had the flu a few weeks ago. After most of my symptoms had passed, my lymph nodes became so swollen that they were visible from across the room. I knew I was getting a secondary infection and went to the doctor. As I had predicted, they put me on prednisone and a strong antibiotic.
-1	I was feeling sick i had fever and flu symptoms. However something didnt feel right. I noticed my lymp nodes on my neck were swollen. I knew this could be a serious viral infection. I went to see my doctor and in deed i had a viral infection. My doctor gave me antibiotics.
-1	Helping my friend when she was running a fever. Tell her to take tylenol and drink liguids. Also making sure she saw a doctor for further help.
1	Going to the doctor and knowing how low my blood pressure should be and what birth control works best for me
1	I worked with children with severe and profound illnesses as a result I learned a number of basic medical techniques including tube feeding, IV maintenance, and other low level tasks that I would have to perform in an emergency.  In addition the necessity of understanding medical issues with a rare disease gets much higher since many doctors have never heard of my condition. 
-1	When I was diagnosed with Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome, I  had to very quickly get familiar with a lot of medical/health terminology. A lot of doctors don't even know about the condition so it was on me to describe the basic concepts to them.
1	I feel I have the basic knowledge of health or medical issues. I am always leaning to learn more about human's body from medical side. And i can deal with small issues and make judgement about if i need more care
1	I had a missed miscarriage and was scheduled for a D&C the following morning.  A few years later a friend was also experiencing a missed miscarriage and her doctor gave her the option to wait and miscarry naturally or have the D&C.  I was able to discuss my experience with her and what I learned after my surgery was complete.  My experience was able to help her make her own decision.  
-1	I helped my sister when she fell and sprained her ankle. Helped her elevate it and put ice  on it until she could get to a doctor
1	I did have a false positive mammogram. I did have to have  a biopsy, etc. but I stayed calm and went through the process to make sure that it was nothing.
1	My husband was diagnosed with serrated polyposis and frequently has colonoscopies to manage and monitor it.  He is often still groggy from the anesthesia when his doctors come to talk to us about the findings so I've largely taken control over understanding the condition and the information the doctors tell us.
1	My mother had a stroke; the treating physician considered administering TPA to reduce the chance of further damage due to clots that blocked blood flow. I knew TPA could reduce clotting so much that bleeding could occur in the brain. I and the doctor weighed the risk of continued brain damage due to clots versus potential damage from bleeding and agreed to administer TPA. She did not suffer any additional mental episodes during that treatment.
1	I was having severe headaches for a few years. I went around to various physicians/specialists for testing and everything under the sun. I questioned all of them about whether or not my neck could be the culprit of my headaches, and they all just laughed at me. I did my research and found a physical therapist who specialized in neck issues and sure enough, it was absolutely an issue with my neck that was causing my headaches.
-1	When I was in the field we trained us how to respond a patient like doing CPR, inserting IV fluids to the patient and Emergency response situation.
1	I cannot recall any experience that has demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues because I am not familiar with these. At least I recognize which type of doctors I have to visit in order to get correct analysis and treatment. My most recent experience involved a pain I was having in one of my shoulders for a long time. I knew I had to go see an orthopedist who checked and diagnosed me. 
-1	I do my own research on the internet and ask friends. A doctor once misdiagnosed my appendicitis. I   have an appendix that points backward instead of forward in my body, so the symptoms present were in a different location. I researched and found this information.
1	Recently my husband came home complaining that he ached all over. I realized that was probably the flu and got him to the walk-in clinic the same day. He was prescribed Tamiflu, which greatly reduced his discomfort.
1	My mother's diagnosis of a rare, life-threatening blood disease required I become familiar with several basic medical practices and procedures.
1	My most knowledgeable experience was when I had a cardiac ablation for AFib. I had done quite a bit of research on my own and my cardiologist explained everything so thoroughly that I felt I knew what was going to happen each step of the way leading to the procedure and then through recovery.
1	I had to go to the doctor once because I was having headaches and I was getting out of breath going up stairs and when I was working and I told the doctor I thought my blood pressure was too high and it was. 
1	I mean, I take very good care of myself, and I often give people nutrition and health advice. I dealt with mental illness (depression and anxiety) for years until I finally decided I needed to tackle it from all sides and finally get rid of it. This involved a great deal of research and realizing just how important physical self-care was for mental health. This was something I had neglected for years, especially in terms of sleep and nutrition. So I finally started getting enough sleep on a regular basis, eating healthy, and taking carefully selected supplements that are helpful for mental and general health, and overcame mental illness for good.
1	I was having trouble having normal sleep patterns.  I didn't drink caffeine or do anything abnormal within 6hours of my desired bed time, yet i still never could go to bed at my desired bed time.  Worst yet I would experience symptoms such as a fast heart beat, tingly feelings in my appendages and high chest pressure when I laid down.  I figured out my above normal intake of sugar, caffeine, nicotine early in the day caused this and once I stopped the nicotine and reduce consumption of caffeine and sugar the aforementioned side effects stopped.
1	I decided to visit my doctor because I had a strange birthmark on my foot that I was worried about. My doctor examined the birthmark and told me that I shouldn't worry about it. However, I felt good about my diligence. 
-1	A couple of years back I had gone in for a routine mammogram and since some abnormality was detected I was asked to undergo a biopsy which , thankfully, was found to be negative. I was glad I had this test done.
1	I was walking up a steep hill and slipped.  I fell and skid on my knees for several feet down the hill.  My knees were cut up badly and there was dirt and rocks in my knees.  Based on my previous medical knowledge I just went home, cleaned the area out with soap and water.  Scrubbed the area down really well, applied antibiotic ointment and gauze covering and it healed on it's own.
1	I have had some first aid training in my life.  I have also had the experience of take care of my family and myself when someone was sick.  
-1	"When I was younger, I was diagnosed with Epstein Barr Virus and I understood what the doctor told me. He explained to me that it was incurable and that the teiters (I probably misspelled that) would never change, but God healed me and the test results did change. My doctor was in shock and He said, ""I believe what you believe""."
1	I went for a physical exam and was told I had high blood pressure.  I already was familiar with the condition because there are people in my family who have the same condition.  I was aware of the type of medication that could be prescribed to me.
-1	When I went to the doctor and they explained to me the chances of heart disease, I new the numbers and understood the percentages right away.
-1	I diagnosed myself as having hypothyroidism because the symptoms that I was experiencing I researched and found that I had the condition. I set an appointment with my doctor and told her and she told me she had to do test to confirm what the ailment was and sure enough it was nypothyroidism
-1	One time we were at a restaurant and my brother started choking on a spicy shrimp, and I successfully performed the Heimlich maneuver on him.
-1	My doctor has given me a lot of information on my past medical history and illnesses. They give me information on what I need to watch out for and how I can deal with symptoms.
1	At my new apartment I would a sudden rash appear on my body at certain times during the day. In particular it would take place at evenings. My doctor initially diagnosed it as eczema. However what did not make sense it that why it would appear at certain times during the day.  Someone told me to give zyrtec a shot the next time it came up. I did so and within 10 minutes the rash went away. It was basically coming from the heating system of the new apartment that I had moved into. Basically I have knowledge enough to suspect whether something is eczema or tinia or something else. 
1	I was in the military and during my years in the service, I maintained a combat medic certification. This was an annual certification that required continuing education classes in order to keep up to date.
1	Many years ago, I had pneumonia that started with the flu, and ever since then, I have had annual flu shots (and, in the past decade, annual pneumonia shots as well). I am aware of the fact that the shots are only effective against a few very common strains of flu, but also know that if I do get the flu, it will be less severe than if I didn't have the shot. 
-1	When I was drinking in college I developed a bleed from my upper GI tack.  This was my first real trauma and dealing with a hospital for an extended stay.
-1	I went to Nursing school earlier on in life and was exposed to alot of medical terminology.  In day to day life I am able to comprehend.
1	When my mother was battling cancer, she had a black out spell. My daughter living in California called me to come home (I was in Utah at the time). I got their as quick as I could, about a day later, and went straight to my mom in the hospital. I talked over her condition with her doctor and he was confident due to my responses that I understood what she needed and I could take her home.
1	After years of going to the allopathic doctor and getting lots of tests done and very little answers, I stopped listening to mainstream medicine and started learning about naturopathic medicine.  I felt awful and had difficultly thinking clearly often. I started taking vitamin B-12 tincture, nascent iodine, and did a parisite cleanse (which includes micro-organisms, not just the FDA's definition of a parisite), and for the first time in my life I can think clearly by default and stopped taking prescription medication for ADD.
-1	I think I do well at assessing my own health issues. If I am dizzy or light headed I will try to eat sugary foods. If my symptoms are any worse I will diagnose them the best I can then see a doctor if needed. 
1	My niece had made coffee using a coffee maker but forgot to place the sieve (sheet). Therefore, the coffee was highly concentrated when we drunk it. After about an hour, I felt very nervous and jittery (I was watching a football game) which I attributed to my favorite team losing, but took some time to lie down regardless. I was able to assess my true symptoms and quickly realized that this was no normal reaction  I had overdosed from caffeine. We went to the emergency room and the doctor said my quick reaction saved my life  and my niece's.
1	When my brother wrecked his motorcycle really bad and hit head, I knew for a fact to take him to the hospital because he was pretty much guaranteed to have a concussion. I was right. I also knew not to let him go to sleep on the way to the hospital, because going to sleep with a concussion is extremely dangerous and can actually kill someone. 
-1	I dont have alot of knowledge when it comes to health or medical issues. So im not sure what i would even write in this form here.
1	My friend was suddenly having sharp shooting pains in his feet that he had never had before he had an abrasion from his ice skates on his ankle and i thought that it may be the cause and advised him to go to the emergency room and it turned out he had a serious medical condition 
1	I took the NCLEX exam in order to become certified in the state of texas as a registered nurse. I attended nursing school for 2 years and attended clinicals for that time, and was able to show that knowledge on the NCLEX exam by successfully passing it
-1	I was told I had asthma and I exercised and took supplements and I no longer need medicine or feel the symptoms of asthma. I feel healthy now.  I trust in nature and god not the doctors !
1	My mother is diabetic and has several other health issues and a history of cancer and more recently heart disease. Because I have spent so much time at hospitals with her, I am accustomed to the signs and affects of certain different health issues. I can usually help her before she even asks just by observing how she is feeilng
-1	Both when I received the news that I had fibroids and it was causing infertility issues.  I researched the best options for dealing with them and consulted my doctor after that. I cut certain things out of my diet and then had surgery. I am hopping to be able to conceive in the meet few months. 
1	Over the course of several days, I've noticed my roommate has stayed in the bathroom for long periods throwing up. His diet isn't the best, as he consumes a lot of sugary foods/drinks such as soda and candy as well as eating a lot of fast food. I told him his symptoms reminded me of someone who has acid reflux and searched online to confirm these symptoms. When he got officially diagnosed by a doctor, it was confirmed. 
-1	I was told a few years ago that I needed to have major surgery, and what the recovery process would be like afterwards. So, I remember that I researched as much as I could and I thought ahead of any questions that I could ask when I sat down for my consultation with the surgeon.
1	I have suffered from depression and I started to realize it when my mood started changing and went from bad to worse. I was emotionally distraught and physically fatigued. From what I knew I was suffering from depressions and anxiety and went to my doctor. He prescribed medicines to address both issues and within a few weeks I started to feel better
1	I read about some research into a medication I was taking that indicated taking it at night was more effective. I mentioned this to my previous doctor; she looked it up on the internet while I was in the room and agreed I should try it. 
-1	guess i'm not doing so well at the math so maybe i do have difficulties understanding health info. but that's not old age, i've always been like that
1	"Last time I went to the doctor I was given a new prescription and when I was asked if I had any questions or wanted more information on the prescription I reiterated to the doctor everything I had learned from the information included to make sure I understood everyting correctly, and all the doctor need to say was ""Great, there's nothing more I need to teach you!"" as I did indeed read correctly everything that was given to me."
1	I was able to recognize the early stages of ADHD in my eldest child due to caring for my cousin for many years when he was younger (he had the same condition). Since I knew so much about the condition already, I was able to sidestep a lot of the pitfalls that many parents of ADHD children have to deal with, since I knew what to expect and why.
1	I know that antibiotic is only effective against bacteria infection and should be use for viral or fungus infection. When a doctor prescribe antibiotic I should continue to take the medicine until it runs out even if I feel better only after taken it for a few days. 
-1	My sister was visiting recently and she kept complaining of several symptoms which I had exhibited a while back and I kept telling her it sounded like her blood sugar could be elevated.  Once I stuck her finger it was elevated and we had to rush her to the emergency room because it was so high, 
1	 About ten years ago I was out at a bar with a friend of mine. We had a few drinks and then caught the bus back to my house. We were sitting in the living room trying to decide what to order for dinner  when he started to complain about feeling dizzy. He excused himself and went to the bathroom. A few minutes later I heard a loud thud and went to go check on him. The door was open and he was having a seizure on the floor. I pulled him by the shoulders out of the small bathroom and into the larger adjacent room. I elevated his head on my knees and stuck my leather wallet between his teeth. After about ten seconds or so he calmed down. He was kind of out of it so I called an ambulance for him. He was ok in the end but is now on medication.
1	When I was in high school myself and bunch of friends were at a friends house one of my friends fell and twisted her ankle badly. I carried her to the house elevated and iced her foot until someone was able to take her to the doctors. She had a bad sprain, with a lot of swelling.
1	Years ago I had been having back pain. It had lasted for about a week, and initially thought that I had just pulled a muscle. I woke up one night with more than a mild pain and a fever. I knew that I likely had a kidney infection because of these symptoms. 
1	i was talking to my sister about flu shots and the ages of children being able to get their flu shots and what options are available for people who are older or that have certain allergies to be able to get their flu shots.
1	When I was taking care of my grandfather when he was undergoing dialysis, I had to read plenty of forms and research the procedures, remedies, and prognoses online.
-1	i am not a doctor or nurse so i do not have a lot experience in being right over their knowedge at all. i have no experience where i would consider myself more knowledgeable than them,. that would be arrogant and i would not understand someone doing that.
1	My child was feeling . His temperature reading was in the high range.I knew that medical attention was needed and i immediatelly took hgim to our Dr.
1	I recently was told I have  a health issue that can be corrected with medication.  I don't like the side effects, but I know the issue could cause more problems than the medication. 
1	When I go to the psychiatrist we often discuss medications and conditions, some of which are not even my own but I like to learn about such things. Also, when I was in the NICU with my daughter I was able to learn alot of things, we were there for awhile so I could communicate back with the doctors lingo and understand medications and conditions.
-1	I have had osteoarthritis and osteoporosis for many years.  I am on prescription medicine and osteoporosis medicine. I have researched my condition and have asked many questions of my doctors and I also do a lot of reading on the subject looking for natural supplements as well as prescription medications.
1	I was having lower ab pain. I thought it might be constipation or some other easy fixed issue. I tried several other over the counter meds to fix the issue. Once it didnt subside for several days and got worse in pain, I went to an urgent care center. Rather than going at the first feeling of discomfort I tried a few methods myself before seeking medical attention from a doctor.
-1	I have a health condition. When  I went to the er I was very knowledgable of what the doctor was asking in regards to my condition. 
1	I was having trouble going to sleep at night which is very unlike me. Usually I fall asleep within five minutes. I reviewed what I had been doing and eating and realized that I had started drinking more caffeine than usual later in the evening. I stopped drinking any caffeinated beverages after 5 pm and my insomnia disappeared.
1	One example that comes immediately to mind is tracking maximum heart rate of VO2 max as it applies to active fitness.  I volunteered for a study several years ago where we measured both of these metrics over the course of several months while on a fitness regimen.  This process allowed me to learn more about how my age affects my workouts and the target heart rate I should aim for.  I also learned about oxygen levels and how that plays a large role in your fitness, specifically with cardio exercises.
1	I was able to use the internet to correctly recognize that my mother was exhibiting symptoms of Ludwig's Angina, resulting in a life-saving trip to the ER.
1	A friend of mine recently was having severe pain on her upper right side and wanted to wait it out. I'd previously had my gallbladder removed and knew that this was a symptom. I convinced her to go to the emergency room to be checked out just in case and I ended up being correct.
1	My husband had high cholesterol, high triglycerides high blood pressure and hypothyroid. I have done a ton of research and even called experts in the fields and asked for advice. My husband would not take statins drugs. He will only take his synthroid for the hypothyroid. With diet, supplements, exercise and good advice from experts he no longer has high blood pressure or high triglycerides. I have his cholesterol in a good range which is just a hair below treatment and he feels very good. I myself only take supplements and all my tests come back normal because I believe in taking care of my health. I have the osteoporosis only and I have that under control.
-1	I take care of dependent adults with disabilities and assist them with their medications and appointments this has helped me gain a little knowledge
1	I have grown up around medical professionals, as stated earlier in the survey. There are multiple experiences that show my medical knowledge. I have learned to set IV's, give injections, learned (put never performed) a tracheotomy, and more. For one specific example, I will talk about injections. My father was diagnosed with Low-T, and given a testosterone booster (that he later dismissed and stopped taking, in lieu of his beta blockers). My brother taught me how to sterilize the injection site and my hands, properly take precautions such as gloves, and how to inject and administer the drug (through a slightly forceful, straight motion, applying the dose over a period of roughly 15 seconds into the gluteous maximus).
1	When a family member was having symptoms of a heart attack I knew they should go to the emergency room based on those symptoms. I have other family members who have heart problems, and I worry myself, so I have read a lot of information, and gained a lot of knowledge about heart disease from my doctor.
1	There was a time I went to the doctor with a certain set of symptoms and told the doctor I would like a prescription for amoxicillin and he agreed that would be appropriate for the symptoms and wrote one up.
-1	When my son was sick with chicken pox I knew it was chicken pox by his symptoms and by the look of it and I've never seen chicken pox before
1	My husband was showing the symptoms of Lyme disease, and I knew it was likely that he could have been bitten by a tick recently, so I made him go to the doctor and it turned out that he did have Lyme disease.
1	I had to live through my mothers cancer surgery, chemo, recovery. I was the one talking to all the doctors, and my mother was able to follow all of the instructions.
1	I really can't think of a particularly good example.  I guess recently I've been watching what I eat and working out more, and as a result I've lost fat and gained muscle mass.
1	I broke my foot a couple weeks ago. Going in I was very clear about my questions, asked about the options, and volunteered what I knew the treatment would likely be if the x-rays came back in the affirmative. 
1	I monitor my cholesterol and calorie intake carefully.  I also exercise 5 days a week via walking or lifting light weights.  I do to my doctor, dentist and eye doctor regularly.
-1	I remember once my doctor told me that my blood pressure was high so I have to change my diet and do more exercise and then my blood pressure came back to normal
-1	When I decided to get on the depo shot and, my gyn was explaining the risk/side effects. She talked about how depo would affect my bones so I needed to take some form of calcium.
1	My friend developed symptoms of losing weight, feeling tired, coughing, and sinus problems. I have known people with these symptoms who had lung cancer. I urged my friend to see a doctor, and he found that he did have cancer.
1	My husband wanted me to take our youngest son to the ER. I told him that there wasn't anything they could do, I'll be told to push fluids and have him rest because it's just viral and had to run its course. Went to the ER in the middle of night and that's exactly what I was told to do, $200 later. 
1	so my grandfather had a lung cancer and it was stage 2  and doctor commanded chemotherapy but the family was against it  so it did my research and convince them that  chemotherapy show positive result .
-1	When I was pregnant they were testing me for Preeclampsia every time I went to see the doctor. All the tests were coming back negative. When i was in my third trimester i started feeling sick, I always felt like I had high blood pressure. I felt like I was slowly developing preeclampsia. Tests for some reason were not showing anything even though i felt all the symptoms of preeclampsia. At 39 weeks tests finally showed it and i was hospitalized and induced the same day due to severe preeclampsia. 
1	When I went to the doctor this morning he went over a number of items and I had no issues understanding them.
-1	Once a year, I usually get a very bad case of the flu and I never go to the doctor to get medication or to get a check up. I avoid going to the doctor so much and despise the thought of getting told bad news about my health that I just tough it out. It can potentially last for months at a time, and even though I know in the back of my head that if I go to the doctor's office they could probably prescribe a medication that could help me much faster than whatever is over the counter, I do not go. I know I am in the wrong and it really shows a lack of understanding when it comes to medical issues. 
1	I was on a medication that had a side effect of lowering blood pressure, and my doctor had added another medication at night that also had that side effect, which I was only to take if I wasn't at all dizzy. Since the second medication worked very well for the symptoms for which it was prescribed, I suggested possibly changing the other medication to something else, since it wasn't as good at controlling the symptoms for which it was prescribed as the new medication. My doctor agreed.
-1	I went to nursing school and got a BS in Nursing. I had 3 years of clinicals so I've seen many medical issues.
1	I try to be very careful when it comes to eating white flour; I usually eat whole wheat and brown rice and try to limit my sugar intake.
1	After having several kidney stones I knew what my pain was and I also knew what the procedure was to remedy the problem.
-1	My husband had numbness and tingling in his right leg causing drop foot . It did not add up to me because yes he had back herneiation but not typical pain from herniation so we tried many different doctors of all kinds and behold he was finally diagnosed with MS we are not completely sold on that diagnoses either so this is disconcerting as well because he isnt that mobile anymore. 
1	I worked for a medical software company and so that gave me an extended vocabulary surrounding medical conditions. Beyond that my father is diabetic and has had a heart attack.
1	I was able to assist an elderly woman who we were friends with with her blood sugar. She was getting sick and it turns out that her blood sugar was getting too high because of her sweet potato consumption. She thought only desserts and things with added sugar would spike her blood sugar.
1	I have asthma, so constantly throughout my life I have had to be very careful of my breathing so that I do not have an asthma attack, where my breathing gets super labored. I need to be mindful of my limitations so that I do not exacerbate my condition.
-1	I was have some hormonal problems and I knew through research, that I was peri-menopausal.  I feel like the knowledge I had before seeing the doctor was beneficial for me so would come up with a plan together
1	I have very little experience and knowledge of health or medical issues.  I rarely go to the doctors, only once 1 year or if I'm really sick.
1	A girl in my dance class complained that whenever she bent forward and stayed there for more than a few seconds, the blood rushed to her head and she got black spots in her vision. I told her that it was because she has low blood pressure, as the same thing happens to myself and my father for the same reason. 
1	Throughout my adult life, I have had to make many medical decisions. I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues when my grandmother was diagnosed with stage 4 ovarian cancer last year. I had to explain to the rest of my family what the doctors were talking about and how the procedures would go, etc.
1	Just the typical health classes in high school and college. As well as the times I've been to the doctor for high blood pressure and heart palpitations.
-1	I went to the cardiologist when I had unusual pain in the center of my chest. I told him due to the nature of the pain and the heart disease history of my family I felt I needed an angioplasty to check for blockages. It turned out I needed a stent.
1	working in a hospital and radiology office in the past has inhanced my knowledge of medical issues.  I did ultrasounds for 7 years,  and it taght me many things about healthcare.
-1	 I used to work in the public school system. I worked with a teacher who was a Type One diabetic. I also had a son in law at the time who was a Type One diabetic. I had witnessed my son in law's struggles with blood sugar ups and downs,and had seen him suffering from a complication of diabetes,known as Ketoacidosis. Because of my hands on experience with my son in law,I was able to recognize the signs and symptoms in the teacher I worked with,when she fell ill one day. I was able to summon help for her and give my opinion on what was going on with her in the moment,health-wise. It turned out I was correct and that she did indeed have Ketoacidosis.
-1	I guess the only time  can think of was when I was a teenager and my friends little brother cut and scraped his knee. I knew to pick him up and clean the wound and bandage it so it wouldnt scar too badly.
1	I was at get together at a friends house and her parents were there.  We were outside playing volleyball and her father started feeling dizzy and out of breath and his heat was pounding.  I thought he might be having a heat stroke, so I made sure we put cool, wet towels on his head and around the back of his neck.  It turned out that it was a heat stroke and they told me that this probably helped to not cause him more harm from this.
-1	When I sprained my knee in a third world country. I had to rely on my own and online research.  I did not have the chance to go to the doctor because of the country.
1	My boyfriend was complaining of swelling in his groin area, which was a concern due to the location.  I knew that lymph nodes were located in that area (along with several other areas of the body) and that it might just be that his body is fighting off a sickness.  Over the next few days he came down with a viral infection.
1	I used to experience severe constipation, bloating, and lethargy. I did not know why this was happening until I started to look into my diet. From there, I learned about fiber (and different types of fiber such as soluble and insoluble fiber) and I learned about the role of carbohydrates, fats, and protein (macronutrients). Since I didn't have a well-balanced diet, I constantly felt horrible and had constipation. Once I fixed my diet to include vegetables, beans, whole-grain foods, water, healthy fats, my symptoms went away and I've never felt better.
1	Three years ago i was diagnosed with severe osteoporosis. All I knew about the disease was that I did not want it. So I went online and researched extensively about the causes, treatments and prognosis. Armed with this new information I went to my doctor and we discussed in some depth what our best form of treatment should be. I then went back online and looked further, using my own research and the expertise of my doctor. We then came to a suitable treatment to best help me.
1	I have hemolytic anemia, the cause of which is not certain. I have had to research and learn on my own the possibilities which could have led to this situation and aid in my own knowledge to help my physician figure out what the next step is and how to control it.
1	I wife was diagnosed with cysts on her uterus. I was able to understand what this meant and what needed to be done to treat this medical condition. Everything the doctor told me made sense and I was not confused by the medical terminology used.
1	My mom took multiple pills and was just out on a new one, one night she started talking crazy and incoherrant along with inability to move. Remembering she just started a new pill knew she was probably having side effects from the drugs.
-1	I had been told by my primary care physician that I was anemic due to menustration. I knew from college that I was supposed to ask why I was anemic and I knew my pcp had just pulled it out of his ass that it was due to my menustration. I went to a new GYN and he realized that I was insulin resistant while the other doctor missed it.
1	After the birth of my son, I noticed that his skin was unusually dry and would not retain moisture from any of the varieties of lotion that I purchased. After taking him to a Dermatologist, he was diagnosed with Eczema. I manage his condition my moisturizing him with Bag Balm, which is very efficient in managing his skin moisture and I make sure to use sunscreen on him.
1	I have had discussions with people in the health profession but I am not sure what you are asking in this question.
-1	A time where I had I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues is when I started to see a new primary care doctor and I had to explain to him about the rhemutoid arthitis that I have been diagnoised with and also explain about the uveitits that I have 
1	I feel like going through the process of having a baby has helped educate me in terms of health and medical issues. I read up on various medical issues that could happen during pregnancy and delivery. 
1	I sought treatment for what I thought was social anxiety disorder, just by doing research on the internet. When I went to see a psychologist, they confirmed that I did indeed have social anxiety disorder
-1	I went to a clinic to test my body fat percentage and I could follow almost all of what the nurse was telling me about my body.  
1	I have been a home health aide taking care of multiple people. I have a lot of experience dealing with doctors and hospitals.
1	When I was 19 years old, I worked as Direct Care staff for an individual with autism. Along with autism he had other health issues and. Part of my job was to be knowledgeable about those issues and how to handle them if any problem arised
1	As a twenty-something, I was diagnosed with leukemia.  I was not married and lived away from my family, so I had to rely on myself.  I managed to find the right doctors with the approaches that best fit my life and goals.
-1	I learned a lot about health issues when my appendix burst. I had to do research on what to eat and what medications to take
1	In 2013, I went deaf in one ear after blowing my nose. I waited a week to see if it would get better. It didn't. I realized the cause was actually an infection I had had a decade earlier that never completely went away. A small participle of infection had remained in my sinuses for a decade, then moved when I blew my nose. If I hadn't figured that out, and relied upon a doctor to figure it, I might have have had the infection inside my ear pop my ear drum or worse.
1	I have had a history of lower back disc issues as a result of a lifting injury about 8 years ago. I have since seen multiple back pain specialists and physical therapists and have learned how the injury ocurred and what to avoid doing in order to not re-aggravate it. As a result, I try and pass on the knowledge to other people who are dealing with similar back issues and refer them to doctors that have helped improve my condition. 
1	In 1995, I came down with an extreme flu-like illness that I almost died from. Several years later, after researching the information online and talking with my doctor, i came to the conclusion that i had Hanta-virus due to living in close quarters with a field mouse that infected me. 
1	My last place of employment did not even have a basic first aid kit. I carried a trauma kit in my car. So, anyone that had a minor injury came to me for assistance.
1	As mentioned before, I grew up in a family of doctors--my mother is a family physician and my father is an emergency physician.  I have degrees in psychology and social work and have worked in the health field for a long time. Not only that, but my children have recently had some medical issues that have forced me to use my knowledge. 
1	I do not have a lot of experience because i have been pretty healthy my whole life. My parents have only had a few issues that I know about 
1	My daughter had a urinary tract infection and I could tell by the pain in her urination. I knew this could be cured with some antibiotics and lots of pure cranberry juice to clear her system as well as better hygiene practices. We went to the doctor anyway to confirm and were told to do exactly as I thought.
1	When I was in high school I dislocated my elbow and could not afford physical therapy so I had to do it myself. The exercises and stretches were painful but appropriate in learning to use my arm again
1	There was a time where I had a rash and  I didn't know what it was because allergy medicines weren't working. I looked up multiple rashes online and found out about eczema, so I got some treatment for it and it helped take the rash away.
1	I knew I had GERD after realizing that some over-the counter medications were no longer effective in treating my symptoms.  had also noticed that something as simple as drinking a glass of water too fast would trigger heart burn and a great deal of discomfort. 
1	I lift weights 3 days per week and do 4+ total hours of cardio per week, in addition to walking at least 7 hours per week (I have a desk job, so even though I'd like more than that, I am content with 7). I do this because I understand muscle mass is important, and can be harder to put on as one ages. Also, strength training can help with bone density, which is useful especially as women age. I also want good cardiovascular health. This is all because people in my family tend to live to be quite old (my great-grandmother is 96!), but not necessarily with a great quality of life, and I want to have a great quality of life as I age.
1	I was at the doctor's office and they were explaining to me what it meant to have high blood pressure, the potential complications that it can cause, and what I need to change in my life in order to get my blood pressure under control. I understand all of the information they gave to me, I implemented it and I had a normal blood pressure reading 6 months later at my next visit.
1	After suffering many broken bones I was able to diagnose thy I had a shattered finger bone after slipping at work and also tore two tendons (did not diagnose that) but could tell by the level of pain I was experiencing that a bone in fact was broken
-1	When I was at the doctors he was explaining my condition in vast detail and I understood every part and asked a technical question about it and he was able to fill me in on the more hard parts. Like the likelyhood of certain medications to cause elevated blood calcium.
1	I was told that I have some salt deposits on my kidneys. I drink quite a bit of water now so that I can avoid getting more deposits or worse yet kidney stones.
-1	I've helped others with mental illness. I've had pretty unique experiences with mental health that has led me to advising others. Answering questions for people. 
1	I have supported my parents through many difficult and challenging medical issues. Ensuring that I stayed engaged in all discussions regarding care and treatment plans with their doctors and nurses when hospitalized has created my understanding and I've honed it with independent research and support from friends and family.
1	I cannot think of a time in my life where I had the chance to demonstrate my medical knowledge except to apply it to my daily life and try to keep myself as healthy as possible. 
1	When I correctly thought I had hyperhidrosis, went to the doctor and then he told me that's exactly what it was. One of the few times WebMD didn't make me super anxious and calmed my nerves.
-1	I can't really think of anything but probably the first time i talked to my grandfather about his recent cancer diagnosis and didn't feel like he had to explain many things to me as i understood 
1	I was diagnosed with Lupus. I already knew what the disease was and what the possible complications were. I did not know about treatment options at the time
1	When I was twenty five I had to make the decision to go through with an experimental surgery for my migraine headaches.  I was told at the time that I could either not survive the surgery or could come out paralyzed.  However, I knew that I required trying this surgery to try to improve my quality of life.  I had spent much time in headache clinics as well as a month inpatient in a special migraine unit in Michigan where they tried to solve my migraines.
1	I recently was bitten by a dog. I knew to try to get a little blood out of the wound and then rinse it with water and soap before wrapping. I was reluctant to go to the ER due to costs, so I waited until the following day to go to my primary care physician.
1	I was a psychologist / counselor working in a family medicine clinic.  Many times I helped people understand what their physicians were suggesting.  Most common questions related to probabilities of different outcomes with different types of treatment.  The above question about the meaning of a positive test for breast cancer, and what to do about it was a common one.
1	My mother had pain in her lower back. She explained some of the other symptoms, including pain urinating. I told her she may have kidney stones, which was later confirmed by her physician.
1	My father, a man in extraordinary health, had breast cancer last year. It proved to me that even if you dont smoke, don't drink, eat a healthy, sugar free diet, you can still get cancer. 
1	I had to speak to my grandmother's doctor after she suffered a mini stroke, as my mother wasn't at the hospital yet.  My grandma had already had a couple of mini strokes, but the strokes coupled with her dementia turned out to be devastating to her brain.  The latest stroke left her unable to speak, or walk.  She ended up being diagnosed with Vascular Dementia, and the doctor was in such shock with the diagnosis as my grandmother had been a high school math teacher.  The doctor ended up giving me advice as to how best to prevent myself from getting dementia.
1	I was experiencing a ringing in my ears. I scheduled an appointment with an ENT and after extensive hearing testing, the doctor confirmed by believe that I have tinnitus.
1	When my mom was diagnosed with Stage 4 cancer. We very quickly had to educate ourselves on what exactly that diagnosis meant as her doctor wasn't being very forthcoming. After research it became very apparent that she had a death sentence. I learned quickly with that diagnosis that you are ignored as a patient. I found that if you could engage the doctor's in speaking about the disease after I first did my own research and not simply asking questions that I was able to get further with them. For some strange reason, I had to demonstrate some type of knowledge of her health and medical issues before a serious, honest conversation could take place.
-1	I cut myself once when i was younger and treated the wound with alcohol to prevent infection and wrapped it up to keep it clean. Washing it and changing the wrapping regularly. I once thought i had depression and went to the doctor to see if i had a problem with depression and the doctor agreed with me diagnosing me with depression.
1	When my husband complained of pain in his abdomen, he wanted to just work through it and tough it out. I insisted he go to the doctor because his pain did not sound normal to me. It was persistent and much more painful than typical digestive problems. He did end up going to the doctor who then had him go to the ER. It turned out he had colitis, and it might have persisted much longer or gotten worse had he not gone.
1	One time I felt like I was having a heart attack but I was relatively young so I thought surely it couldn't be that.  I went to the doctor and found out after doing tests that it was in fact an anxiety attack.  The next time something similar happened I still went to the doctor but was able to inform him of the symptoms being almost the same as the previous time and was pretty sure it was the same thing and it did turn out to be.
1	I was very underweight and highschool and I made it a goal for myself to get healthy and build muscle. This led me to do lots of research on exercising and nutrition. I also took many college classes on health, nutrition, and kinesiology. 
-1	I had a doctor that attempted to prescribe me the wrong prescription, despite me telling him that I was allergic to that medication.  He didnt hear a word he said.  Had I taken it, I may not be here.
1	I have worked in the medical field (in an optometry office) for the last 10 years. I have spent 15 years taking care of my mother, who had congestive heart failure due to methamphetamine usage, along with epilepsy, diabetes, high blood pressure, two strokes, history of blood clots, and high cholesterol. She spent 10 years in and out of the hospital and I was her sole care taker. I have also spent the last 20 years of my life helping to care for my grandfather who has agent orange poisoning from the Vietnam War. He has leukemia, emphysema, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, history of stroke, and several other issues. I have spent a lot of time in hospitals with him and taking classes better learning to care for his conditions. I personally have fibromyalgia, arthritis, migraines with auras, and am immunocompromised so I spend a fair amount of time in the care of doctors myself.
-1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when my husband was diagnosed with high cholesterol. I was able to use previous knowledge and research techniques to adjust his diet in order to lower his cholesterol. 
-1	I was playing basketball and I had ran into a person and he landed on my knee.  I went to the ER and they said that I sprained my knee.  It didn't feel right so I did some research and pushed and it turns out that I torn my ACL, MCL.
1	I don't feel like I really have one. I've worked in medical education as an administrator for years so I know some words, but as far as working knowledge or an ability to display that, I cannot think of an example. 
1	I don't really have a knowledge of medical issues except for the ones I have.  I did know that I had a melanoma because I was in australia where there is little ozone and I knew the signs of melanoma.
1	My daughter took a bad fall and before any medical attention arrived I was going through steps to check and be sure that she was conscious, nothing was broken. I checked the bleeding and stopped it. Checked her level of consciousness. Tried to keep everyone calm. 
1	my father cut his finger and it was bleeding profusely. In order to clean the wound we utilized rubbing alcohol to disinfect the wound then we took cotton balls to cover the wound and help in the process of clotting. Furthermore, we bandaged the cut on his finger to protect the wound from further injury.  
1	When I was taken to the hospital from my place of work in an ambulance. I ended up in the ER and the ICU and have no memory of it at all. However, when I did become cognizant again, I realized that they were pumping meds into me for high blood pressure and I knew that I'd have to take them for the rest of my life. I also knew that my life had probably been save because I could have had a heart attack or stroke. 
1	I was obese and had chronic back pain. I learned how to count calories and calculate my ideal BMI in order to lose 45 pounds. I also learned how to exercise according to my weight and age in order to stay healthy. 
1	I passed my CNA exam in high school which you can do in my state without taking classes. I just took the book and studied so I could charge more as a babysitter. It showed my range of knowledge in basic health and medical issues and how to handle basic situations. This came in handy while babysitting as one small child named Carson ran into an island in the kitchen and split his head open. I knew how to handle it and get him to a doctor. 
1	"Whenever I go to the doctor they always ask a bunch of questions, like when's the last time ""so and so happened"" or what medicine are you allergic to, or what are you currently taking. "
1	My father died in 2005 after a long battle with cancer.  I got to know a fair amount about white blood cell counts and anemia and some of the other issues he faced along the way.  I know bits and pieces here and there. 
1	I was diagnosed with a bulging disc. The medication that I was prescribed was a pain medication. I knew that this medication could become addictive. I did some research on the medication and found out that the medication was highly addictive. I called my physician and requested a different medication that would work but not be addictive.
1	I have had bio-metric screenings done numerous times, and have been told and understood all of the measurements given to me for blood pressure, cholesterol, body mass index. Also having to take prescription medicine has never been an issue for me in understanding side effects and how much and how often to take.
1	In college I took a medical ethics class where we discussed topics such as euthanasia, vaccines, and the health care system. We had to know what the current laws were and the opinions of leading medical philosophy scholars. 
1	In a college class while performing a lab experiment for physiology, I had to use my knowledge about blood pressure and heart rates to predict what these measurements would be in different conditions.
1	At 5 am I heard the dog barking from my Mom's bedroom. When I got there I saw that she looked ok but things were out of place (dog on floor instead of bed, she was on the opposite side of bed from where she usually was). I talked to her for a minute and she wasn't normal. I thought she had a stroke and called 911. It turned out to be a seizure.
-1	I have anxiety attacks, so I know that I am not eating a healthy diet or doing the right things in order to minimize them. I also know if I have one coming, I can take medication to help rid of it. 
1	My now ex-husband had a genetic heart condition. Because of this, I had to become knowledgeable about cardiac problems. My son was recently diagnosed with his own heart condition, which is slightly different than his father's.This meant I had to not only continue to keep up with what his father has as he may still develop it, but I now had to also learn about this new one.
1	i lost a bit over 30 pounds by calculating my nutrition needs and sticking to a plan of caloric restriction. i researched what might be some good foods for satiety and also engaged in circuit training to up my activity level
-1	My brother was having intense pain in his side that was moving around to the front of his body. I brought him to the ER and suspected kidney stones. I was correct that was his diagnosis.
1	I was told that I might need open heart surgery by a patients first doctor because my heart rate was elevated and had been elevated for a couple of days. I am not overweight, I don't smoke, I swim regularly. I did not accept his opinion and saw another doctor. 6 years later I am still here.
1	We have a wellness screening every year at work. All the numbers that are on the chart are easy to understand. But also before knowing what my numbers were i knew how i can affect each of those numbers, whether it is exercise or healthy eating.
1	I have had jobs in the medical field and worked on improving my health a lot over time. I am also planning to go back to grad school for physical therapy and have had plenty of schooling in the health field. 
1	One time I was having an incredible pain in my stomach. I had a decent idea of what was going on, but I went to the doctor just to be safe. The doctor confirmed my layman's hypothesis. 
1	When I had endometrial cancer, I learned a lot about my body. I learned all I could about it so I could stay well informed during my doctor visits and treatment. 
1	A time that I demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is when I started having an allergic reaction and developed red itchy bumps all over my skin. I did my research online and found out that I had hives, and that Benadryl should help them go away. 
1	My daughter has CF. I spoke at length with her doctor about the benefits of adding a new drug to her daily routine.
1	I was sick and thought it might be a bacterial infection, rather than a virus, so that antibiotics might help. I went to the doctor, and it was a bacterial infection which the antibiotics helped, and I felt better.
-1	"I spent a good deal of my childhood being treated for various mood disorders. having these different diagnosis given to me gave me some degree of understanding about how to approach medical information when it is given to me in a medical environment. Otherwise, i have always taken an interest in nutrition and have always read nutrition labels which has helped me understand what is conventionally understood to be ""healthy"" or ""unhealthy"" foods"
1	I guess about a year or two ago I had some chest pains that felt a little weird, but I knew it didn't feel like heart attack symptoms. I did go to the emergency room just in case though since they say that you should.
1	I sometimes track my calories on what I eat if I'm trying to lose weight. I have to read the labels and serving size of foods to make sure I don't eat too many calories. For medical issues, I have to measure out medication into a syringe and had to learn to inject myself intramusculary. 
1	I was taking care of my grandmother who was stage 4 cancer.  Having taken CNA classes I knew how to assist her with using the toilet and change her as well as give her medicine. 
1	2 years ago I fractured my right hand. When going to the doctor, I was able to diagnose which bone was fractured based on the pain and swelling before having x- rays because of my knowledge of anatomy. I told the doctor, and he was very surprised that I correctly determined which bone was broken after he looked at the x-rays.
-1	Very recently I felt strong heartburn in my esophagus, typically a doctor would recommend some anti-acids, but, given that I've taken some courses in college and know certain things about the human body, anti-acids were to make my condition worse because 90% of heartburn is caused by too little acid. Based on that knowledge I managed to end my heartburn situation by simply decreasing the ph of my stomach. 
-1	When my grandparent was in the hospital I was really the one responding for explaining to the rest of the family what was going on with is health. Therefore I demonstrated knowledge in doing so
1	"My son has had several hospital stays in his life and I am usually able to communicate to the doctors and nurses using medical terms, many of them are surprised and glad to have to not ""dumb down"" the way they explain his health issues."
1	My children have been ill on numerous occassions with upset stomachs.  I know from past experience that they need to stay hydrated and also eat foods that are easy on the stomach.  Being able to know to give them a BRAT diet has saved trips to the doctor.
1	I was pregnant with my son and battling a terrible cold and knew that my options for medication were limited, so I went to my primary and get checked out and was prescribed an inhaler.  I then proceeded to consult my OB to ensure the inhaler was safe for the baby.
-1	In college I took a health and wellness class as an elective. We studied the human body, environmental risk factors that effect human health and all kinds of sicknesses.
-1	Went to a doctor. Told me I had some heart issues and needed to exercise more. Immediately I started walking and jogging on my breaks at work. 
1	This survey is one, I suppose, but I cannot think of an individual time where I may have done this.  I've been able to read and apply medication dosages properly over long periods of time, from a young age(I used to be on ADHD medicine).
1	My husband got a scrape or bite on his elbow. Within a few hours, his elbow swelled up to the size of a tennis ball. This was Not Normal, so we took him to the ER. He turned out to have a staph infection and had to have it lanced, drained, and a drain put in. I had to clean it and drain it three times a day for a week. Luckily, it was ordinary staph, not MRSA.
-1	I know a lot about hypothyroidism because I was diagnosed with it when I was born. I was born without a thyroid so I have to take medication my whole life for it. I am very knowledgeable about it and get blood tests regularly. I explained this to a new doctor I was seeing, so I demonstrated my knowledge of my condition.
1	When my grandpa was in the ER for his gout and fever, the doctor prescribed him a new medication to treat his gout. When we were given the discharge papers, I reviewed everything and reviewed the medications side effects. It had stated that the medication should not be used if another medication is currently being taken. I asked a nurse about that and she wasn't sure about it so she talked to the doctor. The doctor had to review all the medications again and ended up saying it was okay to take both medications at the same time after a thorough review. 
1	I usually obtain copies of blood work, etc. from y doctors.  I realized that there was a vitamin D deficiency.  This went unnoticed for several appointments.  When one doctor recognized the deficiency and called me, I knew I could u as t him.
1	My 1 year old burned his hands on a curling iron and we had to go to mutliple emergency rooms and hospital.  One doctor told me we needed to do immediate surgery.  The burns were bad but not that bad.  I have some knowledge of burns and new the heal naturally very well.  I asked for a second opinion and did not do surgery.  Every thing worked out great.
1	I scraped my knee. I washed it gently, to prevent infection. I found a clean old rag  to use as a bandage. I wrapped it around my knee and secured it with tape. Not too impressive, I know.
1	I work in healthcare as a patient care tech so i demonstrate my knowledge to my patients day in and day out. I also took an EMT course through the state i reside in so i use the information i learned there at work each day as well. Lastly, I tend to be the friend that everyone goes to with their medical questions despite my lack of statistical knowledge presented in the past few questions. 
1	Most of the time I had to explain what the diagnostics were to my parents and now I do it  with my wife
1	When my ex attempted suicide due to a benzodiazpene overdose, I took appropriate measures such as making sure she stayed awake after I found her to reduce risk of brain damage. A negative result of knowing about that class of drug is knowing that memory damage is likely due to damagine GABA receptors, which have a critical role.
1	I was feeling somewhat unbalanced and weak on my left side. I knew it wasn't a stroke because I was not paralyzed, exhibited no symptoms, nor did I have any risk factors. One doctor thought it might have been a stroke. I went to a chiropractor, and after several adjustments, I felt more balanced and stronger on my left side.
-1	I went to school to be a medical assistant. My first job out of school was at a dermatology office where I served as a medical assistant for a year. I learned all kinds of things about the skin and just the medical field in general. After Dermatology I had experience in OBGYN offices and Primary care. All physicians and offices are very diverse. 
1	I have taken classes for medical billing and coding. I also have an aunt that is a nurse and I learn a few things from her. I received my degree in medical billing and coding, but I have never used my degree through employment.
1	I have advanced education in training in the medical field. I have a Bachelors of Science degree in Biological sciences. After obtaining my undergraduate degree, I went to graduate school and received my doctorate in immunology.
1	I have osteoporosis and have had to decide with my doctor on which treatments are best for me - to help with the condition with the least side effects and inconvenience of treatment. I also had to decide with her to have a treatment hiatus to see if my levels would hold. I felt confident in her and in my ability to understand and make these decisions.
1	I can absorb knowledge and information better than most. I have no problems figuring out what I should do when a problem or condition. Usually I have been told before, and I remember it. I always see a doctor for most problems. When get a new prescription, I always ask the pharmacist about the new drug.
1	I know that when I take a UTI test strip test, if it shows signs of leukacytes or nitrates that there is a good chance that I have an infection.
1	One time when I was younger I was around a friend that experienced severe burns to their foot.  They instantly wanted to run to put their foot under cold water to cool it off but I told them that doing so could result in a lot more pain than they currently were in and also tissue damage to the foot.
1	I had a uterine fibroid that was removed by hysterectomy. When I found out, I was able to read all the medical information available at that time to about how to treat/handle the fibroid which led me to make the decision to have the surgery.
1	About 20 years ago my daughter called me one morning as my 10 year od grandson was getting on the bus and she happened to mentioned he had been getting up in the night to go to the bathroom. In the next sentence she said and he is so thirsty the last coupe days all he wants to do is drink water. He had already taken the bus so I told her it was urgent for them to get him when he got to school and take him right to his Dr. I said sounds like diabetes. They took him in and his numbers were so high they admitted him to the hospital for a few days. He is a type 1 diabetic.
-1	well i know that some of thesee i did not know but with myself i know because my dr tells me and i can read my paper 
1	Sometimes I have a hard time breathing due to asthma but I can't tell if it's asthma or my throat is dry. I know that a sign of asthma is wheezing, so I breathe hard to see if I'm wheezing. If I am, then I use my inhaler.
1	I sometimes deal with IBS and have researched a bunch of information on it for possible remedies. When my sister started dealing with some stomach issues I was able to help her with some diet tips to get it back under control. She was on a fairly unhealthy diet due to being in college and limited food options, so we figured out a plan that would work for her.
1	I had a length of time in my life where I did not have any health insurance. During this time, I could not go to the doctor's office no matter how ill I became, because I could not afford to pay for treatment. I had to rely on my own knowledge of symptoms and treatments and I became very good at finding reliable sources on Google for anything I might not know, like how to make home treatments. 
1	Once, my son was sick, and I took his temperature and looked him over and noticed he had a rash on his hands.  I told my husband he probably had hand foot and mouth disease, because it is common in young children and he had the symptoms of the disease.  When I took my son to the pediatrician, the doctor told me I was correct.
1	I had to help my mom with her insulin.  She needed 1 unit for every 20 points her blood sugar was over the reccommended level and i was responsible for figuring out exactly how much insulin to give.
-1	I had to go to the hospitial at 20 for them to remove a tumor on my left testicle. I did a lot of research then to find out the whole process of it all. Thats about it 
1	After having a microdiscectomy, I returned to a neurosurgeon complaining of similar symptoms. My previous experience in diagnosis and treatment taught me what to expect the next time around. 
1	While asleep on the sofa on a weekday afternoon, I was awakened suddenly by a sharp pain in my upper chest.  After a brief moment, I realized that this was a pain that I had never experienced before.  It was definitely something important and possibly very serious.  A minute or two later I was on the phone with paramedics and soon on the way to the hospital.  Three cardiac stents later, I am glad that I was able to recognize the location and unusual character of the pain and seek immediate help.
-1	have been dealing with low back pain since early twenties. Finally had surgery to correct it. Wanted to send me to PT, but I had been some many time before that I knew all the stretches and had all the equi[ment.
1	I used to be a lifeguard and was responsible for first aid and basic care in the event of any of the swimmers getting injured. This showed that I knew basic medical information.
-1	When I applied for SSD I was able to essentially tell them what was wrong with me in the forms I needed to fill out. This helped them make a determination regarding my eligibility for disability. 
1	When I first made my initial visit to my doctor I came prepared with several questions. I was pleased that she did not just talk about what medicines I may have to take but asked about my diet and exercise routine. She was rather pleased that I already had an established exercise program and watched the intake of sodium in my diet and encouraged me to continue on the path I was on.
-1	I am not sure I have had an experience that gave me any knowledge of health or medical issues.  Except I have a friend with diabetes and have known folks with cancer and have died.
1	A woman I know was having chest pains, she wanted to call an ambulance or drive herself to an emergency room, but I told her that the cost of the ambulance ride might not be covered by her insurance, and her insurance might not cover the cost of her emergency room visit if it turned out that she did not actually need emergency care. After some discussion she decided to take a Lyft to an urgent care facility. I haven't been able to find out what happened to her after that. 
1	While my sister was in the hospital for child birth, I actively monitored her stats. I alerted the nurses when her bp was fluctuating for no reason.
1	The doctors were questioning a condition that a relative had. They were saying that the relative had some symptoms but not all. I then said well doesn't the blood work show some abnormality that could lead to that symptom. The doctors talked about it and they found it could. 
1	When I was fifteen, i experienced some very hard cramps in my abdominal region. My mom kept asking what was wrong and how i was feeling and i told her that i thought it was my stomach itself or something that had to do with it because i wasn't able to poop. Turns out i needed my gallbladder removed because of the severity of the gallstone.
1	An experience in your life that demonstrated your knowledge of health or medical issues was when I received my doctorate degree
1	I have a chronic illness and have had multiple complications from that. I have a positive ANA, I've had a stroke yet I've had no heart or vascular disease, I have chronic fatigue, I've had extremely elevated liver enzymes where they go up and down. The one thing they do know I have is Hashimoto's auto immune thyroid and even though it hasn't been confirmed yet, I believe my stroke was caused by my Hashi's because it causes me to have afib sometimes. I know that if I have one Auto immune disease I could have others. I know that if my thyroid hormones are not at the right level they can cause all kinds of problems with metabolic processing that could include problems with my liver or my immune system may decide to attack my liver. I have figured out on my own that my body does not convert T4 to T3 and being on a medication that has both is optimal for me. And I've learned that sometimes blood work does not tell the whole story, that more than anything you have to listen to your symptoms and use those as a guide along with blood work.
1	I am able to successfully take care of my wife and child when they get sick or hurt themselves.  I can buy medicine, give it to them, etc.  They get better after I help them.
1	When I was very young, a girl who lived in my dorm confessed to me that she thought she was pregnant because she had a burning sensation when she was using the bathroom. I told her that wasn't how pregnancy worked and that she probably had a UTI she needed to get treated. (Sorry! I don't have many life experiences that demonstrate knowledge of health issues.)
1	"I kept passing out, when i got results back on my blood sugar it was within ""acceptable levels"" but on the far end. ive fixed that by paying more attention to what I eat and no longer pass out. "
1	When I started to get light headed after awhile was a warning sign that I should go to the doctors since this has never happen to me before. So I went to the doctors and explained what has been happening lately. He then tells me that if anything changed in my daily life. I said I started to work 2 jobs. He said it could be that you overworked yourself but he will still run some test. He told me to take it easy and rest. After a couple of days of rest I was fine.
1	I commonly face experiences where I have demonstrated my health knowledge. My wife has been going through some health issues and I have been helping her understand what she has been told by her provider. 
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated this was when I was diagnosed with breast cancer.  I learned more about health and medical issues than I ever wanted to.
1	A few weeks ago my roommate had a fever and felt ill. He thought that the fever was the issue and he would be okay if his body temperature was lowered. I explained how fevers occur to help your immune system fight off illnesses, and lowering the fever would only make it harder for his body to deal with the real issue. 
1	Well I suppose one of the best experiences of my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health and medical issues is the classes I took in college.  Between studying anatomy and physiology, doing labs on the same subject, and taking tests on everything, the fact that I passed I suppose proves my knowledge of the subject matter.  I also did a study-abroad trip in college with a group of nursing students in Cameroon doing health screenings.
1	I was a division 1 track and field athlete and over the years after many muscle strains and pulls, I have been able to properly identify the difference between the two when I get injured.  I usually am able to self-rehab on my own from learned experiences.
1	After feeling rather weak, I knew from experience that I have tendencies to have a low iron count. So knowing this, I started uptaking my iron, looking for the most absorbent type of iron as possible, since they are not all the same. 
1	My neighbor came over to visit and as she was leaving she lost her balance a little, I noticed that her speech was starting to slur and face seemed a little slack on one side. It was apparent to me that she may be having a stroke, I called an ambulance and they were able to get her to a doctor quickly to minimize the effects.
-1	I was on vacation one time and my wife had a urinary tract infection. Over a couple experiences I had I had learned that if you mix baking soda with ice water and drink it really fast cure hurt urinary tract infection if it's in the early stages.  Well we were on a boat in the middle of the ocean and long story short there wasn't any doctors around unless there was a really expensive one and the lower level of the ship.  After being unexpected vacation we are not about to pay so we figure we would give this trick a try.  Surprisingly it was very hard to let the chef get us some baking soda. He wanted to know what we are doing with it why we wanted it it was actually quite daunting.  Once we finally got it she continued that for a couple days and it was cleared up completely.
-1	I can recall a time a couple of years ago where i started getting this really sore thorat.  It started slow as first and within a couple of days it would not let up.  Ive had strep before and figured that is what it was turning into. i got a flashlight and looked in the back of my throat and sure enough there were little white puss pockets started to form in my throat.  At that point i went straight to the doctor where they ran a strep test and it came back positive for strep.  I was giving antibiotics and it cleared withing a few days, but i finished all of the medicine even though i felt better as it took what was prescribed to me until it was finished. 
1	As I have PCOD problem i am aware of the symptoms and cares to be taken of the health to reduce the problem and in my home my dad have this acromigaly problem by which i am aware of the symptopms of that problem and there is no treatment for this problem and similarly i have knowledge on BP and blood sugar
1	I was able to tell my personal trainer the specific muscles and tendons that were hurting for my left leg.  This was as well as knowing the exercises to do for these.
-1	I had been put on a new anxiety medication, and noticed that I was experiencing some of the side effects that I've heard discussed in the pharmacy.
1	My ex-husband had a stroke during weight-loss surgery many years ago. It affected his speech more than anything else. The doctors explained how the stroke happened. I took lots of notes and asked lots of questions. The information was very technical but the doctor was able to bring it down to our level of understanding. 
-1	I hurt my knee back in high school. I tore my miniscus and was told it was the cartilage in my knee. When they did the survey it was completely torn off so they couldn't repair it but just sucked it out. It took me less time to recover because they didn't have to repair it but I don't know how much less time.
1	after my father was diagnosed with two conditions, i was worried about my risk for developing one or both. so i went to my doctor knowing the symptoms i'd seen show up with my dad's conditions.
1	I have been taking care of my grandma who has several health problems full time for the last several years. She has diabetes, heart disease, arthritis, and cancer. I help her with understanding her medical information as well as help her with her medication. 
1	At one point in my life I was considered obese. The weight gain had happened quickly and with no apparent change to my lifestyle in terms of exercise or diet. I went to the doctor because I assumed it could be a hyperthyroid issue. 
1	"I was able to quit smoking cold turkey when I had a child. Regardless of the ""benefits"" it may have brought to me for quitting, the fact that my child won't have to grow up breathing in second hand smoke because of me is good."
1	On multiple occasions I have had to accompany family members to either the ER or a doctors appointment. Since I was a caregiver to my great grandmother who had dementia, I had to speak on her behalf about all her medical and health issues.
-1	A lot of it was math, as I work with math a lot. For myself going through a high risk pregnancy I had to be careful of my diet and exercise. Also my mental health and what kind of anti depressants I have to take and the side effects.
1	I have suffered from anxiety. I took steps to help relieve panic and stress by eating healthy and limiting caffeine intake.
1	I graduated from Oregon State University with a Bachelor's degree in General Science - focusing on pharmacology. I have taken 1 year of health classes, 1 year of chemistry, 1 year of organic chemistry, 1 year of human anatomy and physiology, and one term on animal physiology. 
-1	my brother almost died from kidney failure 4 years ago. me and my mom read the medical reports several times and thats how i learned to understand medical and it expanded my medical knowledge.
1	In my undergraduate years at college i did a presentation over a chronic illness that my mother had that lasted for 15 minutes describing the effects of the disease as well as what caused it and how it was treated
1	I have been diagnosed with IBS.   I participated with my doctors for over a year narrowing down the possibilities for my symptoms finally to that of IBS.  The diagnoses came after multiple tests and appointments requiring me to listen to the doctors and interpret the results of testing with them.
1	I delivered a sternum rub to an incapacitated passed out friend after they'd had far too much alcohol to consume in order to wake them up and make sure the were ok.
1	My husband has a very complicated medical situation that involves PTSD, TBI and other ailments from a car accident. I have had to help him interpret medical information, and doctors notes.
1	I had a brain tumor.  I had to learn how to take my medication, about surgery, recovery, rehab, physical therapy, etc.
-1	I have been working in the medical field for over 12 years. Also,  I have taken college courses which describes medical issues in detail. The issues given were more the line of using your maths skills to complete.
1	My mother was repeatedly visiting her doctor complaining of having pain in her stomach, being nauseous, and having no appetite. I kept telling her that she had pancreatitis and told her to ask the doctor about it and if her symptoms fit. She was admitted to the hospital shortly after, and they diagnosed her as having pancreatitis.
-1	at times when my brother was small and had a fever I knew what to do for example to put fresh water on his forehead see if his throat hurts to check whether or not infection take the temperature.
-1	MY DAUGHTER WAS NOT EATING, STOMACH PAIN, AND NOT HERSELF.  I MADE HER GO TO THE DOCTOR AND SHE WAS DIAGNOSED WITH AN ULCER.
1	I had the flu and was feeling very bad. .I went to the drug store and got the medicine and treated myself The flu cleared up 
1	I experienced symptoms of a sickness, fever for a few days, etc.  I remained sick for an extended period of time which caused me to think something was wrong.  I went to a doctor and it was determined that I had walking pneumonia.  I feel relieved to have gone early to prevent anything worse from happening.
1	Going through a complicated pregnancy, I had to do a lot of research as to what was causing my symptoms and if they were normal/treatable. I had to have a lot of conversations with my doctor to find the right balance.
1	I have two kids who have a history of reactive airways when they get upper respiratory infections.  On several occasions I have had to assess their symptoms, administer breathing treatments, and make decisions about whether or not we needed to visit the ER.  
1	One event in my life where I was able to understand a medical condition and its warning signs is when I developed a pneumonia, and although my mother refused to take me to the doctors, I took a cab to my local urgent care and setup and appointment to help cure myself. Luckily my mother listened to the doctor there and I was prescribed antibiotics so I could get better. From then on Ive chosen to help myself when it comes to a serious condition
1	I have a friend who often comes to me stating that she is sick or unwell, but usually I ask her a series of questions starting with if she has had any water that day. Usually the answer is no, and she feels better after she drinks some water. My next question would be whether she has eaten, how she slept, and if she has allergies depending on the symptoms.
1	When my depression and anxiety were getting worse. I was knowledgeable about current medications and treatments (by personal research) and was able to use that information to better communicate with my doctor and set up a plan I was familiar and comfortable with. 
1	I generally have knowledge of the common cold, flu, stomach pain, etc., so I've been able to guide my healing habits as well as give advice to others.
-1	My eyes were feeling really dry, itchy and irritated.  Before I went to the eye doctor, I checked my symptoms online and thought I might have dry eye and blepharitis.  When I went to my eye appt., I was diagnosed with dry eye and blepharitis.  So I guess I am able to figure out what my symptoms mean and be right about it. 
-1	Last december, I was having some really bad pain in my bladder. It was difficult to urinate, and I constantly had a burning feeling. And an urge to constantly go to the bathroom, even though I didn't need to. I remembered these issues from a previous time that I had a UTI. I called in to my doctor and gave him my symptoms. They were able to review my chart and see that I had a UTI a year prior and instead of having to go in for another visit, they sent in an RX for the UTI. (although it is pretty easy to diagnose a UTI haha). 
-1	I gave advice to my brother in law when he was diagnosed with cancer to not eat sugar, because it can feed a tumor. 
1	My stepson has been diagnosed with ADHD and his mother is pushing for anxiety and bipolar treatments.  I have had to educate myself on the diagnoses, medication, and alternative options to advocate for  him.
1	When I was still in high school I originally thought I had a sore throat. After a few days of taking over the counter cough medicine I felt that it was something more than just a sore throat because it was getting harder to swallow. I went to the doctor to have it checked on and found out that the nodes in my neck were infected and filling with puss and if it had gone untreated they would have caused serious issues that could lead to death.
1	I have some previous experience working in a health-related field. I also have Bipolar Disorder, Generalized Anxiety Disorder, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, and generally have seen quite a few doctors many times.
1	I woke up one day to brush my teeth as my daily routine.  I noticed that my tongue had a white coating no matter how much I brushed.  Trying to scrape off my tongue led me to bleed a bit.  After some internet research, I was sure I had oral thrush.  When I went to my doctor, I specifically asked her if I had oral thrush and she informed me that I did.  I was quite pleased with myself that I knew exactly what I had.
-1	A few years back I was having pain in my right side. I have know a few people who have had the same issue and it was their appendix. So after going to the doctor and having a ct scan the doctor said I needed to have me appendix removed 
-1	It just seems like a lot of magh I guess Im not sure But it just seems like you have to have a good melt knowledge of math and your fun
-1	when i had a enlarged cyst in my neck and i had to go to the hospital to have it drained and biopsied.
1	I have had high blood pressure for many years.  I can take my own blood pressure and understand where I am at regarding the blood pressure.  I know that as long as it stays high, I have a much higher chance of a heart attack or a stroke.
1	When I was in the hospital I was able to completely understand what was going on, what the readings on the machines meant, what the doctors and nurses were talking about and how the medications would help. 
-1	I was diagnosed with severe vitamin b12 deficiency 8 months ago and my neurologist only wanted to give me shots 1x a month - after doing extensive research online and by calling other doctors and talking it over with my primary doctor I insisted the shots be at least 1x a week - my symptoms started to get a little better quicker then the 1x a month shots did
-1	One of my coworkers had an important meeting later in the day and was anxious about it. Around lunch time she started to say her chest was tightening and that she was having a heart attack. She was shaking, sweating, and breathing quickly. I told her to focus on taking slower, deeper breaths and that it wasn't a heart attack it was a panic attack. After about a minute she was in a calmer state, her chest wasn't as tight, and she was breathing slower.
1	I studied nursing. I was able to help my dad through his cancer. I did a lot of research and asked a lot of questions about his specific illness and therapy. I was able to help him with side effects of his treatment
-1	This event happened in 2007 when I was officially diagnosed with PCOS. I knew I had it just by the systems I was experiencing. I conduct all of my research online and throughly read through any material and sources I could place my hands on. When I finally saw my provider she diagnosed me PCOS which I knew.
1	My close friend fell ill, and I was with him. I helped him navigate his serious illness by doing research while he was mostly incapacitated.
-1	A time in my life that I knew more in terms of health or medical issues was when I was talking to a friend about anxiety and how they were having attacks and what they should do and avoid in terms of alcohol and food that would help decrease their chances of experiencing anxiety attacks. 
-1	The first time I experience vertigo was beginning of 2013. I was doing my homework and eating at the same time. All of a sudden, I started hearing sound like radio frequency on my right ear, and felt everything around me was spinning. I felt nausea. I could not stand up. I had to hold something as if I was moving around too. I went to the hospital, but all they could tell me was I had vertigo. I was so desperate because that ringing sound never stop even now as I typing this. I started looking online everywhere for a treatment, but it is hopeless. I went to different doctors several times a month to see if they can heal me, but none was able to help me. I am desperate. This has caused everything around me up side down. 
1	Im not great at health things. I just have a liking for math and if a medical issue equates to a math problem, I can usually figure it out. Percentages and chances are math equations. 
1	I was found to have a curve in the spine so I had to go and get more test done and pictures were taken to determine the severity of the curve and whether or not I would need a brace or surgery. Recently, I found out that there is 50% chance that I have mutation in my genes that makes me more likely to get certain types of cancers
1	My mother went through a lot of health issues when I was younger. This led to doctors visits and specialist appointments for a lot of my life. She has still not been officially diagnosed with anything. This has helped me understand health and medical knowledge a bit better. 
1	I worked with an elderly gentleman providing in home care. I noticed his labored breathing, blue lips and gray skin one morning and informed his daughter that he really needed to visit the emergency room. She disagreed. an hour later he had a heart attack and passed away in my arms. 
1	I was able to figure out which of my medicines were interecting negatively to cause the deathlike lethargy I was having. 
-1	I know my best because I read that carefully and I'm a person that like to have knowledge. I put all my effort in this survey to try to help myself learn more and to help you guys.
1	"I don't think there is one great experience that demonstrated my personal knowledge of health issues.  I guess one experience would be that I regularly get a blood screening on an annual basis to stay in the know about anything that may be wrong health wise and it always comes back with flying colors - all blood screening ""things"" in the green."
1	My daughter has had her tonsils and adenoids taken out after having strep throat repeatedly for months.  She also has asthma and was in the hospital for RSV as a baby.  I also have a son that has had multiple ear infections and tubes in his ears.
1	I had a mastectomy becuase of breast cancer. I don't know if it demonstrated my knowledge, but it did improve it.  I had to look up so many test results and what they meant, not to mention aftercare from the surgery.
1	I am an insurance agent and I regularly assist my clients with filing claims with their insurers and things like that. 
1	I determined that my on and off fatigue after changing my diet to much healthier was a result of lowered iodine levels as my eats lots of cruciferous vegetables lowered my body's iodine update. I took iodine supplements and felt better
1	What? I have no idea. I went to the hospital for a kidney infection twice within the past 7 years and the nurses were impressed with my knowledge...? Does that count?
1	I talk on a daily basis with my friend, who is a nephrologist. he tells me stories (good and bad) about his profession, his practice and his career. This has helped my general knowledge of medicine considerably and he even occasionally asks for my general opinion / validation.
-1	I have a vascular hemagioma (Port Wine Stain) under my eye, and I know why laser surgery is effective and what the best settings are. This has been beneficial because I can talk to my dermatologist about what would benefit me the most.
-1	Last year couldn't breath so they rush me to the hospital.It was just anxiety an stress the doctor said.I need to get more rest 
1	When I was younger I had a terrible ear ache. I did not feel sick however and thought it could be something else. I went online and found that an infected tooth could cause an ear ache. I ended up needing to have root canal on the very back molar in my mouth. 
1	I worked as a Certified Nurse Assistant for eight years and I currently work as a Therapist within the psychiatric and addiction field for the past 20 years. 
1	My mother is a registered nurse so I learned about health and medical issues from her. I also gained knowledge when my family members were having health or medical issues. 
1	When my Grandma was having an issue with her blood pressure (low, fainting) and my other family members were rushing around trying to find ways to get her to be responsive, I knew enough that she should be placed flat on the ground (an incline would've been better but wasn't available) with her knees up and held up and feet flat on the floor. This would raise her blood pressure, and in a few moments she became responsive. We still called 911, but she was responsive and alert for it, rather than having a dangerously low blood pressure.
1	I had blood tests done and found out that I had hypothyroidism, but when I went to an endocrinologist about it she dismissed my symptoms and concerns. I had to advocate on my own behalf and tell her why all of my symptoms match with hypothyroidism
-1	I have been taken care of myself for a while. I know how to fill out medical information that pertains to me. If I need help, I can ask the nurse and they will help me fill out that I don't understand.
-1	Throughout my life I have encountered many illnesses and medical issues that I have successfully combated. Over time I have become more knowledgeable regarding medical procedures and how to fill out paperwork pertaining to medical visits. 
1	I am not sure that I have ever had the experience that you are looking for.  Any knowledge that I have of medical issues comes from after talking to either my doctor, or doing research.  I do not think that I have ever simply had knowledge of a medical issue.
-1	I had a room mate that had heart issues, i had to take him to his appointments and explain what was really going on, because he didnt know what to call it. he had high blood pressure and did not know what was really going on. It helped me to know about blood pressure!
1	I have been certified in first aid and CPR training. Those courses taught be a basic understanding of health issues and howto treat them. 
-1	I always tell people the difference in storebrands and the name brands (just fillers), and I also generally inform people not to take tylenol while drinking unless they want liver failure.
1	I became sick once and was in the hospital for a week.  I was on a lot of IV medicines and learned a lot about medications that I had never taken before.
-1	When I first got sick I spent a lot of time learning about my disease and when my Dr first talked a lot about it she was impressed with the amount of accurate knowledge I had about it.
1	I started having a sore throat during the week at work. I knew it could be from exercising outdoors, that I needed to clean my fan, I had some type of cold or strep throat. As I weeded out the issues, I knew it had to either be a cold or strep throat. Once it really got sore, I was able to look in the mirror and see that my throat was really red and took myself to the doctor because I knew I had strep throat. I also woke up the next day (because I could not get into the doctor the same day) almost swallowing my uvula every time I swallowed. I was correct I had strep throat. 
1	demonstrated knowledge of medical issues would tend to come from conversations with medical professionals and their either agreement with what i think I know, or the redirection to the correct information.
1	When I had gestational diabetes, I educated myself on diet, supplements, and how and when to exercise to maximize the effect on my blood glucose levels.  I frequently checked my blood glucose levels to maintain proper readings.  I understood how my A1C was effected by the issue.  I also educated myself on dangers to the fetus.  I was able to maintain healthy glucose levels and stay off of insulin during the pregnancy.  
1	I honestly don't think there's any specific moment in my life where I have demonstrated a knowledge of health or medical issues that would be noteworthy. While I think I have a decent understanding of how to keep myself healthy and the choices I need to make on eating and exercise, beyond that nothing special.
-1	I had to use my knowledge on medical issues when I worked at a doctor's office. I worked there for a year and a half.
1	The other day when I was babysitting, I had a feeling that something was wrong with the little boy I was watching. He was feeling very sick and his mom believed it was just a cold. His cough was very bad, mucus cough, a very runny nose, a temperature in the hundreds and no appetite. His temperature started spiking so we took him to the doctor. Sure enough, he had the flu and was required to start taking antibiotics immediately.
1	My son was in the hospital for a month after he was born.  During that time we got very familiar with the monitors and terminology that the doctors and nurses were using everyday.  
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my blood pressure went up, my face and limbs were very swollen, and I was pregnant with my 3rd child. When I called the midwife, I requested to be transferred to the hospital because I thought I had preeclampsia. Upon testing, the staff found that I did in fact have preeclampsia.
1	Someone was saying they were guaranteed not to get the flu since they'd had the flu vaccine. I had to explain that having the flu vaccine could reduce the probably of getting the flu significantly, but they could not say they were never going to get the flu. It would be less likely, but could still happen.
1	There was a situation when I developed some issues with my neck and things became misaligned.  I went to different specialists to improve this area.  I finished a course of treatment with doctors from three different fields, and learned to manage the condition.
1	I am an RN with 16 years of experience.  Before I went to college, I worked at a retirement home in high school.  I learned a lot from elderly people, and they would ask me questions about their medication and how to fill out paperwork.
1	I have learned a bit of medical knowledge through the internet and real life experiences. Other than that, I have no actual medical training.
-1	When I got Bell's Palsy, my wife was convinced that I had suffered a stroke.  However, I felt fine other than the left side of my face not working.  I kept telling her adamantly that I didn't suffer a stroke because I didn't have any other symptoms.
1	I had once pulled a muscle in my chest just above my heart. I knew the pain and location and remembered it quite well. I visited the doctor and he informed me it was a pulled muscle. Years later, I had a friend who one time who pulled the same muscle in the yard but he was thinking he was having a heart attack. He was panicking in fear but I calmed him down and told him to let me take a look. I placed two fingers and a thumb on the location of his chest and pushed hard. It put him in even more pain which told me he pulled the same muscle as I did and it relaxed him and made him feel at ease. That was a time in which I was able to help calm a worrying friend and demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues.
1	When a relative was ill (terminally ill, as it turned out) I attended doctors appointments with the (surviving) spouse and help to explain what had been said, what options were presented, and what the likely outcome would be in each option.
1	Family members have had an assortment of medical issues.  Medical segments on various TV channels are sought for additional learning.  Some of the best segments are part of a regular series on DW, a German network with English broadcast.
1	I figured out what to do when I got hit in the eye with a baseball. Ice was put on it, along with a tight bandage to stop the bleeding.  Then, heading to the hospital to be sure.
1	My sister-in-law said there was like green stuff when she sat down on the toilet (she was 9 months pregnant). I told her that could mean the baby was in distress and she should get to the hospital.
1	When I sprained my ankle playing soccer, I used my medical knowledge to know to put ice on the sprain 20 minutes on, 20 minutes off for the first few hours. Then the 2nd and 3rd days, I put heat on it, and wrapped up the ankle to stabilize it and prevent further injury.
1	I have actively participated in medical conferences and do biomedical research as a career. I have written a grant proposal on the role of pharmacogenomics in treatment for preterm birth and regularly read medical journals. 
1	My toddler son got sick over the holidays this year. It was a scary ordeal and we called the physician when his fever hit 104. I knew to call if his fever hit this high because of my limited medical experience. We were able to follow the doctor's instructions on our next treatment steps and have him diagnosed. I was able to keep calm and handle this situation because of the knowledge I possess.
1	My mother has several health issues (along with being a bit of a hypochondriac) and I have been to several doctor appointments with her to manage her paperwork and explain things she doesn't understand. 
1	I have had four children.  I feel like I am a specialist in pregnancy.  I am also an elementary teacher, so I also feel like I am a nurse most days.
1	I have been trying to reduce the amount of sugar in my diet. I have read that eating a lot of carbohydrates just turns right into sugar which can upset the bodies blood sugar balance to the point that it is much worse for you than fat. (As long as not excessive fat) So I have reduced carbohydrates as much as I can besides just the basic recommended level. I also try to eat a lot of fresh fruits and vegetables to get necessary micro nutrients. I also have cut back significantly on the amount of red meat that I eat and have replaced it with chicken or pork. Some weeks all I feel like I eat is chicken and broccoli. I also try to exercise regularly and get in a moderate jog/run to exercise my cardiovascular system. I also monitor my weight to make sure to notice any changes or patterns and to drink more water. 
1	"When I'm doing clinical and correctly diagnose one of our case studies. Also, when I can correctly prescribe the right medicine for the ""patient""."
-1	I had frequent visits to my doctor throughout the years, and she is very patient and is willing to give information out in hopes to helping others. I have learned a ton from her just from visiting her when I'm not feeling well or if there is something wrong with me. 
1	My son had a fever over 102 degrees at less than 1 month old.  I went to an urgent care, and then the emergency room for service, as this was a very unsafe temperature for child so young.  When I was in college, I had meningitis.  He was presenting similar issues, so I approved a lumbar puncture as well as a urine sample, blood sample, and sinus culture.  He was diagnosed with viral meningitis and given fluids in hospital.
1	I have low iron. I've been able to raise my levels by changing my diet and limiting items that cause issues with iron.
-1	I really don't know what to write because I don't really have very much knowledge of heath or medical issues.  I guess I try to eat healthy.  There was one time where I had to take care of a wound that my husband had.  The nurse on base showed me how to change his dressings and I did until he was all healed up.  That is really the only thing I can think off.  When I go to the grocery store I pay attention to nutrition labels and try to avoid foods with added sugar, too much salt, and loads of carbs.  Fat is ok because we are doing the keto diet right now.
1	Once I was visiting a parent who just had surgery. They were still waiting to be seen by the doctor post-operatively. I was noticed that the partial oxygen on the monitor to be low (in the 80s), so I called a nurse, who then called for oxygen. The oxygen levels came up and everything was deemed fine. 
1	I have had to help both my parents through major health issues.  I also have three of my own children who have had a variety of childhood illnesses and injuries. These experiences have helped me to feel more confident in my knowlege of health and medical issues.  
1	When my grandmother was diagnosed with a glioblastoma, I was always present at medical visits to translate what the doctors would say about required medications, side effects, test results, etc. to my family members and to take care of her.
1	My dad was diagnosed with lung cancer and I was the one to take him to his appointments and procedures . He was in his 80 so I was the one to ask questions, take notes and help decide on treatment.  
-1	I was able to help my sister understand her RH- status while pregnant and what it meant for her baby. I was RH- with my first child, and I had read up a lot on it. I actually have a very rare blood type that switches from O- to O+. 
1	My daughter was born with gastroschisis.  I did a lot of research on it, so by the time she was born I was well aware of what to look out for, what to ask the doctors, and what things to be worried about. She was in the hospital for over a month, and during the time the staff was constantly making comments about how well versed I was in my daughter's condition. It made me feel more comfortable going home with her when she was discharged knowing that I had learned so much about her condition and was comfortable knowing when something didn't seem right or if it was something that was normal for babies with this condition. 
1	I need to decide when to take my husband to the hospital when he had appendicitis.  I forced him to go when I felt his stomach and it was swollen in the same spot they always show when describing appendicitis. 
1	I recently was on a flight to Philadelphia when the very pregnant woman in the aisle across from me tried to stand up and fainted, ending up in the aisle. I put my jacket under her head, loosened her coat and took her pulse which was slightly fast. I saw no signs of contractions in her belly and chalked the episode up to being too warm, possible dehydration and a drop in her blood pressure when she stood up too quickly. After a few moments she came to and after a drink of water, she was able to return to her seat and comfortably finish the flight.
1	I went to get a blood screening and the doctor talked me through what needed to be done, however I already knew most of the procedure and what would be done with the blood, being put in a centrifuge to separate it and test the different parts.
-1	I once dated someone who had the flu and was about to develop pneumonia. He smoked cigarettes. I informed him of how his lungs worked and that he was paralyzing the scillia in his lungs and that's why he couldn't expel a lot of the mucus or phlegmn that was building up in his lungs. I told him that if he stopped smoking they would start to work again.
1	I don't think that I have a good understanding of medical issues, but through nutrition education in college feel that I have a solid grasp of health issues, meaning I know how to maintain my health. I exercise almost every day and eat a healthful, balanced diet. I monitor my health and rarely get sick.
1	Around two years ago I received lab work that my blood pressure was on the higher end. I consulted with my physician and decided to reduce sodium intake and exercise more often. A year later for my next check up my levels had fallen back into normal range.
-1	I WAS AT A PARTY AT A FRIENDS HOUSE AND ONE OF THE PEOPLE ATTENDING I NOTICED ACROSS THE ROOM HIS FACE WAS BLUE. HE WAS CHOKING. I QUICKLY RAN OVER AND GAVE HIM THE HEIMLICH MANEUVER AND SAVED HIS LIFE 
1	I was recently hospitalized for two weeks. I received multiple tests before it was discovered that my gallbladder function had ceased. In that time I became very aware of the procedures and tests which were performed.
1	Well my knowledge is pretty basic. When I went in to premature labor with my son, I thought that something like that could be avoided easily. It wasn't and my son came 3 months early. So I guess that demonstrates that my knowledge isn't that great.
1	My friend's and family usually ask my opinion on their health issues, ask my advice about which vitamins or supplements could help them with the issues they have. 
-1	I am a CNA so I have a good bit of knowledge in the health department. I do not have any medical issues though.
-1	After I applied for my current job, I had an interview with my current boss. She told me there were three candidates that she was considering but she chose me because of medical background. She also said I was knowledgeable about the things she asked me and that she felt like I'd be a good fit at her medical establishment. Two years later, I'm still here so I'm guessing I demonstrated a knowledge of health or medical issues correctly. 
1	When I got a concussion, I knew the symptoms to look for and when to go to the emergency room. I had enough medical knowledge about concussions to know when to seek help.
-1	When I first graduated college I worked in a Hospital  in the Chemistry Lab performing lab test. I did hematology and chemistries on human blood.
1	Based upon my symptoms, nasal congestion, temperature, and lethargy, I can figure out if I need to go to the doctor or if I just need to stay home. I am able to make an education decision about if I need perception medication or if over the counter medications will be helpful.  
1	Earlier this year, I accurately diagnosed my acute bronchitis. I have had it frequently enough over my life to understand the barking cough and wheezing, and when I told the doctor, she said I was right on the money. It was viral, so there was nothing I could do except stay hydrated.
1	I was enrolled in a medical class in high school and I passed the class with an A. It's the only experience that demonstrates my health knowledge because I do not go to the doctors often. I did really well in that class though and even now I try and stay knowledgeable about different conditions and their symptoms. 
1	My wife has a high risk of breast cancer due to family incidence and the tissue in her breasts, so we have done a lot of research into the issue and what she can do too improve her chances of not getting the cancer.
1	I worked as a medical scribe in an orthopedic office and demonstrated a proficient knowledge of the medical conditions that were regularly treated. 
1	To be involved with a genetic study I needed to pass a test about my knowledge of the subject to prove I was well informed.  I passed the test without any problem.
1	I was having certain things happening to me that made me think diabetes but my doctor was not seeing it. So I went to a new doctor and he caught it on the first visit. I quit going to the first doctor.
1	I have lowered my A1C by changing to a ketogenic diet.  My doctor did not agree with the diet but I did my own research and found what works for me.
1	well, as far as medical issues goes, I have always had an interest in first aid and became a youth teacher in the subject for most of my teen years in the Boy Scouts.  I've also received a certificate (after a class a couple years ago) for CPR at my work and am one of a few that can handle the dethibulater (?) at work.
1	I developed a skin rash.  I was aware of shingles and did some online research to determine that is likely what I had.  This allowed me to get into see my doctor quickly and get on meds to minimize the spread and pain.
-1	I have high triglycerides, my doctor wants me on statins.  I also drink alot, so the high triglycerides are probably from alcohol.  Statins wouldn't  help the underlying problem, which is my drinking. 
-1	I've studied anatomy in college and have a decent basic understanding of the physiology.  When I have had injuries, I have been able to easily understand the elements being discussed.
-1	When I had an abnormal skin growth on my back and when I determined it was a boil and the growth had gone back to normal.
1	An experience I had was when my mother in law died of cancer a few months ago.  I understood what cancer in the pancreas meant and how life-threatening it is.  I understood what treatment like radiation and chemotherapy would mean to her body, and the toll it would take on the family.
1	I am a cancer patient. I had a port implanted in my chest to facilitate chemotherapy and blood draws. One morning I woke up and my left arm, near the port, was swollen and sore. I immediately suspected that I had a blood clot in my left arm because of the port. I went to urgent care, and an ultrasound proved I was right. 
-1	It was when I had a collapsed long and had to go to the emergency room.  They asked me what I was doing previously and I described my workout to them and why I was doing certain exercises as that is why they believed the collapsed lung happened.
1	I NEARLY FAINTED ONCE WHEN I HAD TAKEN MY DAUGHTER TO THE EMERGENCY ROOM.  I HAD BEEN EXPOSED TO THE FLU AND HAD NOT EATEN BECAUSE OF HAVING TO RUSH HER TO THE HOSPITAL.  AFTER BEING FORCED TO HAVE AN EKG AND BLOOD WORK BY THE ER DOCTOR AND RUNNING UP A BILL, WHILE TELLING THEM THERE WAS NOTHING WRONG EXCEPT I WAS PROBABLY GETTING THE FLU AND HAD NOT EATEN.  I LEFT THE HOSPITAL WITH A $1700 ER BILL.  I WENT TO AN ACUTE CARE FACILITY THE NEXT DAY AND YES, I HAD THE FLU.  WAS TOLD TO GO HOME AND GO TO BED.
-1	I have a family member who is diagnosed with borderline diabetes. She was seen by her doctor and as a result of her blood sugar being tested during a routine physical checkup. She was prescribed a preventive diabetes medication and instructed by her doctor to decrease certain foods from her diet such as, carbohydrates and foods containing sugar, as following these directions should improve her condition.
-1	A family member of mine was diagnosed with Diabetes , I learned that not only taking care of daily carbs and sugars had an effect on the well being of the person but also the was the person had there check ups .I have a low blood pressure and due to that I can drink coffee and eat dark chocolate, a normal bp for someone will cause me to feel dizzy ,and bad. I try to maintain my health by drinking vitamins and doing some type of physical activity . Checking and making a log of my blood pressure is a helpful tool in my day to day life.
1	I had border line high cholesterol and I chose to increase my intake of olive oil to help raise my good cholesterol which also lowered my bad and total cholesterol
1	i have had lower back problems for a number of years. my roommate recently hurt his back. he told me the stretches and exercises he was doing were not helping - i recommended some of what i do to maintain my back, and within a few days he was already beginning to feel better. 
1	My mother has a warm spot on her arm near the joint and after a few days it started to hurt and swell a bit.  I had looked at it and knew that it was gout, because I had seen it before on someone else.  She went to the doctor and sure enough that is what it was.
1	Whenever one of my family got sick, I usually know how to act in this situation for the best recovery and low cost.
-1	My mother has cancer so I have helped her a lot and have been there caring for her for 5 years. You learn a lot when someone is sick.
1	I worked at a clothing store when i was younger. One of my customers felt lite headed and needed to sit down. She felt like she was not able to continue shopping. I asked her, if she had eaten. She said no and her sugar might be low. I always kept peppermints, so I gave her one. While she sat eating the peppermint I went and bought crackers. This made her feel better and she was able to leave soon after.
-1	Well I have a certification in medical transcription and just other things by asking questions from those that have gone thru nursing school or looking it up myself.
1	I just did a lot of words equations, made me feel like I was back in the 4th grade. I didn't really demonstrate any prior knowledge.
1	When I was in a car accident a couple months ago, I assessed my injuries before moving, showing I understood the dangers of moving with certain injuries. I quickly noticed that the top half of my left femur was the only part that could move, indicating that my femur was broken. In the hospital, they explained things in terms more medical than what would be considered laymen's terms, and yet I was able to understand most of what they were saying.
-1	Before I was diagnosed with Achalasia the doctors kept insisting it was all in my head and that I was just suffering from Bulimia because I was overweight. After much research into Bulimia I realized there was no chance that was my problem because I was not able to binge eat, I couldn't eat more than 5 bites of something before regurgitating food on some days as the disease progressed. I did the research and approached doctors about the possibility of something else being wrong with me and they all ignored me. After seeing several specialists one finally listened to me and agreed the previous diagnoses were completely inaccurate. 
-1	I am very into the natural way of living. I see a guy who is into Ayurvedic healing and he has helped grow my knowledge as to what exactly happens in your body. Most issues start in the gut. So I guess I demonstrate my knowledge when I am dealing with my own health concerns.
1	"I recently burned myself with a hot pot on the stove. Luckily, I was able to ""catch"" myself before it got too bad. After a day, I realized that it was no worse than a 1st degree burn, so I did not need to get medical treatment."
1	Recently my Mother woke up ill and my step-father was taking care of her. He told me that she had a bad stomach ache and that it was probably her gallbladder as he had had gallstones and his symptoms were similar. The two of them were planning to wait until the attack was over and then make an appointment to see her doctor. I spoke to her and found out that she was vomiting a brown substance which I know can be the result of bleeding in the stomach. I insisted that she go to the emergency room where she was diagnosed to have a perforated ulcer and emergency surgery was performed immediately. 
1	I have worked in the health research and health technology fields. I worked in health research and as a contractor for the FDA.
1	I have quite a few medical issues. I have been diagnosed with PCOS and Hashimotos.  I do a lot of my own research.  I was also a Certified Nurse Assistant for a few years.
-1	I have demonstrated to my DO that I was paying attention to my cholesterol results when I was able to correct him on what my past 3 tests were using the health networks website.
1	i have a basic knowledge of health issues and medical terms. Mostly gleaned from tv shows and friends and family who are in the medical field 
1	I'm a long term kidney transplant survivor (20 years this year) and I have always felt confident understanding medical terminology. Now I'm not sure about that thought process!
1	When I had an infection and went to see my doctor, he told me what I had and what to take to treat it.  Once I got my prescription filled, I followed the instructions with the medication, being careful not to take it on a an empty stomach or with alcohol so that I would not suffer from adverse side effects and become ill.  
1	My oldest daughter from my first marriage had allergic asthma. 20 years later, my son fro my second marriage had the same diagnosis. I was able to converse with the doctor in a relatively knowledgeable fashion about the condition 
1	Studying in school has provided a good level of knowledge regarding health and medical issues.  In addition I have been around other people in the health field.
1	I was having heart palpitations about ten years ago after eating a ton of sugar and drinking way too much alcohol, eating too much general crap, and being sedentary. I recognized immediately that something was wrong, I knew the cause, and went to the doctor and started working out.
-1	I work in the home health care field and I had a lady go into a diebetic coma on me. I knew exactly what to do, I first called 911 and then called my office to let them know what was going on. I tried to wake her and she did rouse slightly, so I tried to get her to sip so orange juice, which she did and it seemed to help slightly. When the ambulance go the there they had to give her that insulin in a bag through and IV and then I was instructed to continue giving orange juice but also find something with a ton of sugar in it such as a candy bar or pop tart, we gave her that and she came out of it but was told to go to the hospital just to make sure everything was okay she refused so i sat with her for an hour or so before leaving just to make sure she was okay.
1	A friend of mine had a condition arise that I had had in the past. He was a bit concerned and worried. I was able to tell him exactly what to do and how long it would take to heal.
-1	I have TMJ disorder. I got it from a car accident. My jaw has arthritis, I get headaches and neck pain. I have found out a lot about this compared to what other people might know. 
1	When my child was diagnosed with certain food allergies, I made sure I am aware of the symptoms myself. I made sure I have her medication with us all the time wherever we go. Knowing what to do helps a lot in these situations.
1	I can't think of anything off the top of my head. I've gone into see my physician in the past about mental health issues and was attentive and understood what he was saying. Other than that there's not much.
1	I once had to call an ambulance because a friend of mine was badly injured, enough that I knew they needed immediate medical attention.
1	When going to visit a family member in the hospital, who was there for cardiac related issues, upon walking in the room and looking at his cardiac monitor, I could tell there was a problem.  As soon as the staff saw we had arrived, they came in and told us he had to go to surgery immediately.
1	When I was under 18, I was about 15 pounds overweight and I had high blood pressure. I decided to lose the extra pounds through diet and exercise and in turn lowered my blood pressure to a healthy level.
1	My friend had a numbness in his little finger from playing bass. I had this condition before and explained to him that he had probably hit his elbow, and that the numbness could last for a while, and he should do stretches to alleviate the nerve damage. 
-1	When someone in my family was seriously injured in an accident I was able to give some information to my family about what was going on. 
-1	I had to have a c-section for a breech baby. I was able to understand what the procedure would be like and knew the recovery plan. I researched the medical issue in depth prior to the actual surgery.
1	When I recently dislocated my pinkie finger during a basketball game, I knew immediately that I had, at least, dislocated it.  I found an athletic trainer and he tried to set it.  I knew that I wasn't going to feel it a whole lot because I was running on adrenaline.  When I went to urgent care later, the adrenaline had worn off and it hurt much more.
-1	I was presented with some issues as to why I was developing UTI's, for a man it is not common and the doctor wanted to run a bunch of test on my prostate. I decided to not have a few until we got the results of the first set.
1	I recently went to the doctor for an appointment that was a condition that I had for a while. I went in confident and was able to tell them exactly what I needed and why I needed it.
1	I work in the healthcare industry so I have to demonstrate my knowledge of health issues all the time.  Once, I participated in a booth at a health fair where we took blood pressure and A1c levels for people that stopped by our booth.  We then had to explain what their results meant and were the normal values that they should be seeing.
1	I took a CPR class and had to use my skills one night my husband and I were out to dinner and a woman at a near by table passed out and fell to the ground.
1	When my son was hospitalized, I was able to understand what the doctors were talking about as far as anatomy and body function. This helped me to get a good idea of what exactly was happening with my son and what needed to be done to help. I honestly didn't realize I knew as much as I did until I started talking with them. There were still plenty of things I didn't understand but those blanks were much easier to fil because of my basic understanding. 
1	My mother had a heart attack and while still in the hospital, she was almost given medication that would have interacted negatively with medication she was already taking. I caught the mishap before she was given the medication that would have interacted negatively. I had done research on the medications she was receiving in addition to speaking with the medical staff treating her. 
-1	4 years ago, I fell off a ladder in my garage and broke my hip in four places. I could not get up off the floor, at all. I had to drag myself out of the garage, accross my patio and into my house. This told me my hip was broken.
-1	I was sick for a long time and no one knew why . Mood swings and exhuastion, heart palpitations and tired all the time The doctor kept saying it was emotional. Turns out I have an autoimmune thyroid disorder 
1	I remember when I had to take medication for my anxiety, my doctor told me that it was going to reduce my issue significantly. He told me it would reduce it with at least 60%, I knew it was going to help a lot.
-1	When I self-diagnosed my flu symptoms.  I started to feel bad when I thought I had a normal cold, and I was experiencing worse symptoms like dizziness and weakness.  I figured it had to be the flu based on the information I read on the internet some years earlier.
1	In my adolescence, I rarely got my menstrual period. This led me to do a lot of research on the topic and I got better and looking through a lot of information to make informed choices.
1	My spouse experienced pain in his right great toe, redness, pain.As I heard and know this is symptom of gout. He went to his doctor and he said the same .I was able to tell my spouse what precautions to take and what diet to do.
-1	I worked as a CNA for a couple years. To do that, I had to take a few medical classes. I have also taken some classes concerning health for my BA degree. Together, with being a mom, I have learned some things about health.
1	I had to give CPR to someone and had to recall the training that I had previously received in order to remember how to do it safely. 
-1	I have had training as a first responder (advanced augmented first aid) when I was on a volunteer fire department for two years. And to connect better with people I took courses in biology.
1	I help my grandmother manage her diabetes and medications.  I do this by advocating for her at her doctor's appointments and learning about the best ways and how she needs to be taking all of her medications including her insulin.
1	I learned about what is involved with a cholecystectomy when My wife needed to have her gallbladder taken out. By the time I watched a YouTube video of an example of a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, I knew what was going to happen next in the surgery.
-1	My grandfather had a stroke. One day he was just sitting in his chair and appeared to be as he is asleep. My grandmother started calling to him and he would not answer. Everyone in my house thought he was just playing some joke but i felt something was off. So i told them to call an ambulance because something is wrong. 
1	I was given a prescription and I started to have tingling in my arms. It was very strange, so I thought it might be due to the prescription.   I reread the prescription information and found that while it was a rare occurrence, that could be a side effect and to call my doctor.  I called and explained and they told me to discontinue use of the prescription.
1	I have had many sprains in my life due to participating in athletics. I have also had pulls and even broken bones. My ability to diagnose what each injury was is a testament to my knowledge of these medical issues. 
-1	I suffer daily with anxiety and depression. When a friend or anyone asks about my opinions on the topic, I feel like I have the experience, since I've been dealing with it my entire life.
-1	Whenever a doctor feels like changing up the anti-depressants I'm on I feel as if I have enough knowledge about them at this point to know how they would affect me. For example I know that my body doesn't tolerate SSRI's so I make sure to not receive that type of medication.
1	Whenever I get truly sick for a prolonged period of time or feel it may be serious enough to see a professional I generally do my research first through google, webmd, and other resources so that I have a general idea of what it could be. Even if I'm wrong when discussing these possibilities with my doctor it helps give him a general idea of what it might actually be or helps narrow it down some.
-1	I read an article once in a women's magazine which helped me diagnose myself with cystitis. I wasn't sure what I had but the article made me realize there was a very strong possibility that's what I was experiencing and it turned out to be true.
-1	I signed up for a CPR/AED/FirstAid and Lifeguard certification course.  One thing I had to do was explain to my classmates what CPR stands for, cardiopulmonary resuscitation which uses chest compression's to keep blood circulating until emergency help arrives.  I learned to handle an AED, automated external defibrillator, which is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses life-threatening heart rhythms and can save lives through delivering an electrical shock, known as a defibrillation, which helps the heart re-establish an effective rhythm.  I learned about Lifeguarding and various techniques to save a passive and submerged victim.  One important rescue was being able to use your rescue tube to perform appropriate rescues such as active drowning victim rear rescue and passive drowning victim rear rescue.  
-1	I really do not know much about the medical field, medicine, I wish I knew more. My father was in the hospital he has diabetes, he went into a diabetic coma a while back and I am still trying to understand how much insulin he needs to take.
1	I was having an issue with stiffness in my elbows and knees and when i complained about it to my doctor he wanted to order a test for RA. I told him about my adventures in Connecticut and how often I got bitten by ticks and so I thought I had lyme disease instead. He seemed unconvinced but ordered the test just the same and sure enough i came back positive.
1	I suffered from infertility about five years ago. I had to take myself and my medical history from doctor to doctor to seek treatment. I had to understand a lot of what was going on so that new doctors could know how best to treat my case.
1	I used my experience and knowledge from prior medical discussions regarding migraine headaches to research which triggers to avoid and try to find alternative options to bring relief because the prescribed medication was not working for me. This experience has not completely alleviated the headaches, but I do feel that the frequency has been reduced.
1	Recently I had several symptoms of hypothyroidism, this was found out by doing much research online through several sources. After pushing my doctor to check my thyroid levels, they were in fact off, and so I was put on medication, thus reducing my symptoms. 
-1	I have had many family members with health issues. For example my mother has diabetes and high blood pressure. My grandmother has emphazema, asthma, and other health issues that I have had to learn to treat.
-1	One of my friends sisters was having some health issues and her doctors were having problems figuring out what was wrong with her. my friend knew of my health history and shared what her sister was going through. her symptoms sounded familiar, so I reached out to her, we talked and I told her I thought she had something I had struggled with. Gastroparesis. Her Doctor tested for it, and I was right! That was what she had! she went on medicine and felt better!
1	I saw an accident once and the guy was having some blood loss from his arm. I knew from my first aid training that stopping the flow of blood coming out was a good first step in a situation like that. I got the guy to hold his arm up to minimize the blood loss and tightened a torn shirt around his arm to help until an ambulance arrived.
1	i suffered from acne for several years.  i had worked with a few different dermatologists and tried many different drugs and topical treatments that were recommended to me with little success.  i did some research and discovered that my acne was most likely related to hormones.  i asked my doctor to switch my birth control, which solved my acne problem.  
1	About three years ago, my mother fell down while taking the trash out. She told me over the phone that her arm was hurting terrible, and that she felt a snap upon impact. When I came to check on her, I noticed a bulge on her arm where her bicep was. I had a similar injury in high school, and was positive she had torn her bicep. I took her to the doctor the next day, where she was diagnosed with a torn bicep.
-1	I don't have much formal training, just bits and pieces picked up over life. This knowledge came in handy when I fell out of a tree as a teenager. I dislocated my shoulder and it really hurt. First off, I knew I had to stay calm, stopped the bleeding and then proceeded to find help.
-1	When I started to get sick, I started to keep tack of what was happening to me and looking up online each things that was going on. I started noteing what I was doing at the times I was  have the pains and feeling at the lowest point so I could fingure out what was happening to me when it got to the point of to much pain,I called the doctor and went in to talk about what was happening.
1	I have spinal issues. A friend was suffering from an injured lower back. She asked what i thought. Based on her symptoms I told her that she should take an anti inflammatory medication as well as a muscle relaxer and then rest for a couple of days. she went to her doctor and her doctor prescribed her an anti inflammatory drug and a muscle relaxer and told her to rest for a week.
1	I have had to practice the heimlich maneuver on someone who was choking before. That is as close to demonstrating medical knowledge as I have been
1	i try to analyze the labels of the food to understand the intake and try to ask questions to the medical service provides like doctors and nurses about the complex scenarios which are difficult to understand
1	I have kids, which means I get to play junior fake doctor every week with the amount of things that happen to them.  Spider bites, rashes, sickness, I get it all and I have to make decisions all the time.
-1	When I was younger and I first had to read all the information. It was hard to understand the insurance and when I had to read how much meds I had to take. I felt good about how much to take but there was still some areas that I didn't understand.
1	I was able to accurately describe my symptoms in a quick and concise manner while I was experiencing an allergic reaction to a medication I was recently on.
1	I once had a colleague that was complaining of joint pain and fatigue. I told him he should get checked for hemochromatosis, since those are both symptoms of the disorder. He had Nordic ancestry so I felt he may be at risk. He got the test and he did have hemochromatosis and credited me with getting the correct diagnosis.
1	When i had to have surgery i was able to read about the surgery and the risks of it and make the correct decison for me.
1	I once dislocated my shoulder I was easily able to understand the needed medical care, surgical procedure, recovery, physical therapy, and all other aspects of treatment.
1	I can't think of one. I've been very lucky in that way. I realized my wife had an anxiety disorder thanks to a commercial for Paxil. Her symptoms sounded just like the ones on the commercial. 
-1	One time along time ago when I was a little kid I had to go to the doctor for measles and the doctor thought it was chicken pox but I knew it wasn't so I explained what I knew and how I knew it and why so we could get the correct diagnosis. I think knowing and researching some yourself to help self diagnosis is a major help as doctors are human too and may not always have the correct idea based on your description of the symptoms you are experiencing  and could lead to mistakes being made early in the discussion.
1	When my son had eczema, the doctor just wanted to give him steroid cream and told me there's usually no cure. Instead I had him tested for allergies and found he was allergic to tree nuts. Once we eliminated tree nuts from his diet, the eczema disappeared and has never returned.
-1	I was presented with a symptom once and I insisted that it wasn't normal. It turns out that it was strep throat and not just a sore throat, I knew it was different from the second I felt it.
-1	I have PTSD and I read up a lot on the topic with new research and advancements. Doing this I help myself and can also help discuss options with the doctor to see what is best for me and my health. I can also do this with other medical issues. 
1	When my friend was pregnant and was diagnosed with pre-eclampsia I was able to guide her through the process based off when I had it myself. I explained that if blood pressure is elevated, and that if you lay on your left side and it is still elevated, you are at risk for eclampsia and therefore might be induced at 38 weeks like me.
-1	I have been taking care of all my family medical forms, records, doctor visits, etc. That includes my elderly mother who has had many health issues and several surgeries. I filled out all the paperwork, talked to doctors for her and helped her make decisions.
-1	I had a health issue that really affected my life, my job performance and just my overall well being so this caused me to become knowledgeable and soak up everything i can about how to have hood healthy h and how to better take care of myself.
-1	I have crohns disease and I have scoliosis and i have been going in and out of doctors since i was 12 years old.
-1	When I go to the doctor and have to fill out the form about myself. I usually have a lot of questions when filling it out.
1	I had to take a first aid class and my dad is a doctor by trade, so when a friend asks whether something needs to go to the hospital I am reasonably confident in my answers
-1	I had a time in my life where i could not see right, i could not walk right, I in general was just having a lot of issues. I found out I had NMO
1	My father recently almost died. I was with him in the hospital every single day until he recovered. I was able to learn a lot about medicine, as well as the technology within the systems and how it all works together.
1	I had once had really bad cellulitis in my elbow region. At the time nobody knew what it was and thought I got stung by a bug or something. I knew it wasn't that and researched a lot of different possibilities. I knew I was right and I was as I was told I got cellulitis once I got to the ER.
1	"I felt sick as a dog, had sore throat and was exhausted. I went to the doctor's and he said I was fine. I went home and became sicker. I went back to the doctor's and he said I was fine. I went home again and researched my symptoms: Epstein-Barr and strep throat were the results. I marched back to my doctor's office and said, "" I have  the Epstein Barr virus and strep throat--I need antibiotics for the strep throat and a note to be excused from work so that I can rest""--and that's what I finally got from the doctor."
1	I have been getting migraines for years.  I did some research and was disappointed to find that they don't know exactly what causes them and that there is really no cure.  I started taking excedrin regularly.  I also had a facial intense pulsed light ipl treatment that made me have migraines nearly every day.  I went to the chiropracter because I though my posture and neck alignment may be contributing to neck tension and pain.  This could be leading to frequent headaches.  I wanted to continue with the chiropracter but I cannot at this time due to money issues.  I started getting what I believe were intenstinal ulcers from the excedrin, particularly the NSAIDs.  It put me in extreme pain and cramping for days which I could not get rid of.  I went to see an emergency doctor who gave me pills to stop the cramps in my intenstine.  My sister had the same issue a few years later.  I found out my whole family gets migraines at a family reunion.  I started doing more research and found out inflammation could be a cause.  I started taking turmeric supplements for inflammation.  Within a month I had significantly fewer migraines and headaches.  Now I recommend it to all the women I meet who have migraines, many many women do.
-1	my wife had a stomach pain and she started bleeding we thought its normal to bleed a little during pregnancy but later we realised it was a miscarriage and the result showed possible chance of uterine cancer
-1	My experiences have been to listen to my body, as I'm getting older I realize that if you pay attention to the seasonal, cyclical, and redundant reactions to changes, you will begin to learn your own body better than any other person; you can learn to trust it.
1	I accompanied my mom to get screened for breast cancer and she was given information about what to do to avoid ever having it
1	I had started coughing and had a slight pain in my throat after work one day. The next morning i looked in the back of my throat and lucky me i found some white puss pockets right around my lymph nodes. I immediately identified this as strep and made an appointment with my doctor. 
1	I recently moved and therefore, had no doctor.  I twisted my ankle very badly.  The pain was excruciating and the bruising encompassed my entire foot and went well up my leg.  I didn't really want to pay an ER bill so I took a wait and see attitude.  I felt safe in doing so because I could move my toes a little, and because I did get a little better daily.  I was soon confident that I had no broken bones.  My husband had a 50 percent tendon tear in the past, and knowing what that was like, and how it was treated helped.
-1	I have medical knowledge about asthma and how to care for people with it. I have dealt with having it my whole life.
1	When I took a health psychology class I had to be familiar with certain health and medical issues for the class
-1	when i was pregnant and I seemed to have read all the articles, publications and blogs about pregnancy and giving birth.  When it was time i felt pretty calm about the whole process. 
1	An experience I had that showed my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I took my son to the doctor's office. I had remembered reading about certain signs the body gives away that are an indication of other issues during my studying in the medical field. My son was having a high fever and sweating a little and I figured he was teething because he was also drooling. Sure enough, I was correct when I talked to the doctor about it. He told me that I was absolutely right. 
1	My mother was recently treated for breast cancer and just had her third of four chemotherapy sessions. She was initially told that she would not need chemo at all and would just have to do radiation to lower the rate of recurrence after the tumor and a lymph node was removed, and then a month later she had to very quickly reschedule, messing up work and therefore putting her insurance at risk. All of the complaints I've given you so far are incredibly fresh in my mind.
-1	Last year I was diagnosed with diabetes.  I have lowered by A1C from 6.5 to 5.9 all by myself with diet.  I am now conscious of everything I put in my mouth.  I check my blood sugar every morning and 2 hours after a meal that I feel will raise my blood sugar. 
1	I was diagnosed with a fibrocystic adenoma at 16.  Before I received the diagnosis, I was told by two doctors that it was just a cyst. I knew that something else was going on and did my own research for potential answers before going to the third doctor and feeling confident in asking the correct questions to receive the diagnosis that fit with the symptoms.
1	My husband has type 2 diabetes so I had to learn how to help him manage it to keep his blood sugar under control.  I had to learn about the condition and also about the signs to look for when his sugar is too high or too low.
1	My wife felt lumps in her breast. From my medical knowledge I knew that the firm nodule tha was easily moved was likely a cyst. The other one had a chance to be malignant so she had a diagnostic mammogram and ultrasound. I could see during the X-rays that the lump was not characteristic of a cancer. Then, during ultrasound I could see the round black hole on the screen indicating all lumps wee cysts. Was able to relieve both me and the wife while we waited for the radiologist to tell us the same thing.
1	When my father was found to need a blood thinner I did the research to understand the different medications he could take along with the side effects.  When I asked the doctor about the different medications, we both agreed on one.
-1	I have done extensive research into my own medical conditions and I'm able to have more meaningful fulfilling discussions with my doctor's because I have enough knowledge to discuss treatment options with my doctors
-1	I went to and graduated from nursing school. That's not enough characters, so I'll add that it was a hospital school (they're long gone) so I'm a diploma nurse. I graduated in 1974 and left nursing in 1985.
1	An experience would be when I was hospitalized for appendicitis. I learned a lot being in the hospital that one time. What I should expect from the doctors and what needs to be done while I am there. 
-1	The only time I can think of is the case where I had to go to three different doctors for several tests because they couldn't figure out what was wrong.
1	I knew when I was pregnant the first morning after I had conceived because I felt different upon my walk to work the next morning. It seemed as though everything I was used to doing took a lot of extra effort. I kept this to myself for several weeks until I was able to take a test and confirm that my personal diagnose was correct.
-1	When I was pregnant, I would get a little sick to my stomach everyday, not just in the mornings.  By my 3rd pregnancy, I knew exactly what to take everyday to help me feel not so sick everyday.  I also knew certain foods to eat that would help.
1	I had an injured finger amNd after doing some research determined that I had a droppedfinger.  The nurse practitioner just said I dont know what to do for you or what is wrong with your finger.  After waiting 3 weeks to see a specialist, the specialist told me that I had a dropped finger.
-1	My experience of health issues with doctors is that they are only in the profession for money.  Caring and morals seem to go out the window.
-1	I was on a medication prescribed by my doctor.  I got severe constipation with in days of starting the drug.  I looked up the side effects, and saw that constipation was one of them, so I followed up with my doctor for advice.
1	I work in a scientific field and am working to go to medical school. I actively read medical literature and shadow a physician regularly. 
1	I had to describe to my anesthesiologist what a cavernoma was and how a previous cavernoma affected me.  He was not familiar with the condition and had to research it based on the info I gave him.
1	I was able to recognize my wife having symptoms of a stroke when her face was not moving as it should. It was only Belle's Pallsy
-1	THE LAST TIME I WAS AT THE DOCTOR I WAS DIAGNOSISED WITH HEART BURN. I HAVE BEEN DIADNOISED WITH THIS BEFORE SO I WAS AWARE OF THE SYMTOMS
1	When my oldest child recently became ill and had a high fever we could not get to go down, my knowledge of health issues helped. I knew to not be very concerned when his fever stayed at 102, and he continually kept liquids down, but grew concerned when the fever reached 104. I called our doctor and he agreed with me on what we should do next to get the fever down. He wanted me to call back if it didn't work, but to try avoiding the eremgency room if possible with the flu outbreak locally. My minor knowledge with health and medical issues helped me be able to care for my son appropriately and help him stay as comfortable as possible at home. 
1	when I was a child my mother was going to nursing school and i would always be around when she was studying.
1	I was in the first gulf war. My humvee rolled over a land mine. I was in the air and hit the ground hard. I crawled to the vehicle. My gunner had suffered a leg injury. He was bleeding from lots of shrapnel.  I stopped the bleeding and got him through a rough time until another unit arrived.
1	I really can't think of a situation. I depend on my doctor for info. If I don't know something I seek out resources to help me.
1	Two years ago I had my first UTI. I understood the symptoms as everyone knows the basic symptom of pain while peeing as well as the frequent feeling of having to go to the bathroom. Instead of having to go to the doctors I called the 24 hour nurse service and told them I believed that I had a UTI. I then asked for the antibiotics and after confirming I had the specific symptoms I was approved. I didn't need to go to a doctor for this because I understood the symptoms that I was having 
1	I went to college for five years to become a clinical laboratory scientist. We learned a lot about the different disorders that affect the blood cells and other bodily fluids. We did not learn as much on the symptoms or treatments for all disorders. I feel working in this field now for the past year and seeing the patients in a clinic setting has helped me to learn more and more everyday that I come in to work.  
1	Well, when my dad was sick, I attended many of his doctors appointments, chemo treatments, etc. with him. I feel as if I picked up a lot during that time. When it came time for my dad to enter the hospice program, I was able to take care of him myself and home, albeit with the help of a nurse and other family members. I administered medications to help keep him relaxed and comfortable. I turned him in his bed to try to keep him from getting bedsores. When he developed shingles, I kept him as clean and comfortable as possible. I understood what medicines he was on and what they were doing to and for him. I knew enough to understand the process that was taking place inside his body. Sometimes I wish I hadn't. 
1	My mother or father sometimes ask me side effects of a certain medication (assuming it is not written on the container). I can use an online database to find out information about that medication.
-1	I know a little about health but i don't know percentages and math equasions into the mix. I feel pretty confidident in my medical making decisions. 
1	My son has epilepsy and I had to explain to the doctors that I understood what was going on with him when they didn't believe i understood. They looked up the information I gave them and followed treatment according to what information was given.
1	A little over a decade ago, I injured my knee. I knew it was bad, but I didn't go to the hospital for a few days. In the meantime, I gave myself my own diagnosis, and it was later confirmed by a doctor.
1	I used to have once a year health screening for insurance. they would take blood do blood pressure etc. typically i was able to predict my bp and discussed with administrators of testing what the bp meant
1	I rold this one You are an inmate in a concentration camp. A sadistic guard is about to hang your son who tried to escape and wants you to pull the chair from underneath him. He says that if you dont he will not only kill your son but some other innocent inmate as well. You dont have any doubt that he means what he says. What should you do?
1	I really don't have much experience with health issues.  i just paid attention in high school health class. Sometimes I read articles online if I feel curious about the subject.
1	This is a weird and difficult question to answer. I went through a period of 6 months where my doctors believed I had early onset rheumatory arthritis. They subjected me to a battery of tests and I learned what each of them did beforehand. I've always understood how to properly administer my medication or follow doctor's orders as well. 
1	When I went to the Emergency Department at UF Shands, the doctor assigned to me was unconvinced that I needed to be admitted. I told him that if he did not admit me and dismissed me, that I would be back the next day due to adrenal crisis. He discharged me and I had to come back the next day. The condition worsened. Asshole.
1	Well about 10 years ago I experienced a staph infection on my leg that needed to be treated.  At the time I the cost to have it treated was well beyond my means as I was between jobs and my co-pay was infeasible. Luckly I knew to process of dealing with such an infection was to remove the core from the boil, disinfect the wound, place a drain, then cover it up and request some antibiotics.  I was able to lance the boil and do all the treatment work (I have a very high tolerance for pain) and requested my doctor prescribe some antibiotics.  When I arrived at the office he examined the treated wound and told me he was impressed I was able to do that myself and that it looked as good as the work he would have done.  He did suggest I let a professional do it next time as I could have hurt myself but still I managed to treat it myself.
-1	I've had issues where my tongue gets inflamed and swollen for reasons I still do not understand. Most doctors look at my tongue and focus on the top portion. I have what is called a geographical tongue. It has an odd design and looks cracked and spaced apart on the surface, kind of like the landmasses on the earth. Most doctors have not even heard of this and focus on that, as though it is part of, or the reason for the inflammation. This is one area in which I actually know more than the doctors, and frustrates me when they wont listen to my explanation. 
1	I demonstrated knowledge of medical issues when I was explaining to a tennis student of mine what tendonitis is. It is something I have had in past playing as often as I do and I very comfortable explaining what it is. 
1	When my first son was a small toddler I started to notice tiny painless bumps on various parts of his body. After doing some pretty extensive research online I was pretty sure that the bumps were caused by a harmless virus & it was molluscum contagiosum. Sure enough, the next time I took him to the doctor she came to the same conclusion. A year later my other son developed the same bumps. I was able to immediately identify what it was and was able to get rid of them based on my prior knowledge.
-1	An example is i know the flu is a virus and has to run its course but why the doctor wrote a prescription for my 3 year old to take a prescription and told me got her to take it because it will take her flu away.
-1	i had to give cpr to a friend at the office, i was very swift and i conducted the process properly,  i was confident and exhibited strong knowledge of health and medical issue 
1	My son ended up having absence seizures. I had to learn a lot about it and things that could come from it. Learning about his medications and side effects. Monitoring him so I could relay any information back to the doctors. 
-1	My grandmother had dibeties and when I was 17 she went to get her toe nails cut by her podiatrist. He cut her toenail too short and she developed an infection. I was able to clean her foot, apply ointment and dressed her wound. I did this for a few days with no improvement. When I went to do the same thing the next day, it clearly was getting worse. I advised my grandmother that it looks like gangrene and she should go get it checked. She did and was admitted to the hospital for gangrene. They would normally take the toe but because of her age they highly recommended we didn't opt for that solution. They ended up injecting her with some type of solution and gave her an antibiotic and dressed the wound. Whatever they did stopped the infection and she lived for two more years after that incident and passed away due to other reasons unrelated to the toe 
-1	I diagnosed myself of having low thyroid by doing research online. I compared my symptoms and presented it to my doctor who did a blood test and confirmed. 
1	A few years ago, my dad was having some stomach pains.  My mom and I took him to the doctor that specialized in stomach and related issues.  It seemed like we filled out paperwork for awhile.  It was a lot to it.  Later, my dad was diagnosed with having pancreatic cancer.  That lead to him to having surgery which went well.  From then on, both mom and me helped him to recover and do everything that the doctor told us to do to help my dad.
-1	When my husband was sick and had to be taken to hospital three different times it was helpful to understand some of the information more after each visit.
1	I cut myself on accident at work and properly took care of the wound by cleaning it and covering it bandages.
1	I hate math! Never was good at it. I demonstrated knowledge when my son was recently life flighted to UNC Chapel Hill for an emergency shunt surgery. He purged and a Resident wanted to do an MRI on him again. I tried to explain with projectile vomiting and laying a kid on his back he could aspirate. The young Resident exclaimed that to put the shunt in he had to guide it with CT. This was the first time I had heard of that. He got sassy with me. I told him the machine would need to be closed down if it got vomit all over it. Eventually I got the charge nurse and I told the young Doctor to be that he was off the case. The Head of his Department came to us and said we were right, my child could aspirate if left on his back in that MRI. (He cannot sit up alone as it is.) I have to advocate all the time or things can be dangerous.
1	I had cancer eleven years ago. I learned a lot about side effects and how to control them. I also learned a lot about different medications.
1	My grandpa was diagnosed with cancer, and because of my education and the research I have done on my own, I was able to give him research-based information.  I helped him with nutrition-related recommendations, since that is where my education focuses.  With my help, he was able to maximize his intake and maintain a good weight.  He ultimately survived longer than was expected.
1	In college I though I had a hickey from a girl on my neck for about a week and I could not figure out why it would not heal.  I went to the dr for strep throat and brought up the mark and turned out it was ring worm
-1	While experimenting with birth control, I was put on a low dosage because my heart needed to be tested to make sure it could handle it. I asked my doctor if I could eventually change which type of pill I took because it was making my depression worse.
1	My mother has diabetes and she neglects it.  I get on her to check her blood sugar and to eat better and exercise.  I'm very concerned about her life and her limbs!
1	When a doctor explained what type of cancer my dad had, I demonstrated that I understood by asking various questions.  Basically I understood how serious it was.
1	A few months ago I was lifting something that was too heavy and I heard a popping sound in one of my hamstrings. I could tell right away that I tore a hamstring based upon the sound that my hamstring made. I knew that I had to see a doctor to see the extent of it.
-1	My mom has always had health problems and was always in and out of the hospitals. I learned a lot by listening and asking questions.
1	Let's take flu shots.  I have opted out of getting a flu shot.  I have never had one before, however this year I was tempted.  I understand that the flu shot is only about 17-18% effective in preventing the flu.  This number is not very high.  I also understand what they are telling us is that even if we get the flu, the severity would be reduced if we were to get a flu shot.  Since the flu appears so prevalent this year I am tempted, but I have taken the recommendations into consideration, along with the stats and have decided I would take my chances again this year and not get a flu shot. We'll see what next year brings.  
-1	My knowledge of health issue in my life that I was aware of is food combinations that give indications that there may be a serious problem... but it just eating the wrong foods together.
-1	My son experienced aversions at a very young age to many fabrics, and other sensory experiences. After the years of doctor visits to neorologists for so many of my own neurological problems I was able to see correlating patterns between he and I. I was able to get him seen by a developmental pediatrician much sooner than I would have were I unexperienced in such matters. I consequently obtained a diagnosis that allowed me to request specialized services at school at the earliest possible grade. As well, I was able to help at least 2 friends see that their kids had some issues or symptoms that similarly called for a more proactive approach with their respective healthcare resources than if I hadn't pointed it out. 
1	I have had 2 children.  I was 40 years old with the first child and so I was subject to extra testing.  Now I have a chronic condition and use medication to control it.  I try to read articles on health and medicine on a regular basis.
1	Mother was diagnosed with SLE. Was told that ANA and dsDNA titers came back positive as well as reactive C protein. Was recommended immunosuppressant medication in order to decrease long term cardiovascular and renal complications associated with SLE and try to maintain SLE in remission. After continual therapy ANA and dsDNA titers are undetectable thus indicating remission.  
1	I know that albuterol helps open the lungs during an asthma attack. I also know how to stagger medications of tylenol and motrin every three hours when fighting a fierce flu fever.
-1	I am able to tell which kind of sickness i have. I can get my own medicine that is right for the symptoms. Don't need a doctor all off the time 
1	I was in a car accident which left my back hurting.  I have done one month of physical therapy and the doctor asked if I thought going back to it would help and if not what would I want to do next.  I said the physical therapy wasnt going to work the way I need it to and suggested the pain management next.
1	I don't think I have an experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health.  I did not take and classes related to medicine nor go to medical school.  I do not pretend to know about topics I don't know about.  When I have anything I see as a possible health issue I seek professional help.
-1	There's been times where I was at the hospital and I was already suspecting myself to have POTS. I told them about how my heart rate increases when standing, among other things, and the doctors just told me that I had panic disorder and wouldn't listen to me. Lo and behold, I was right and it was an incident where I knew more than the doctors. 
1	I am a type 1 diabetic and have been for the last eleven years. While my self care hasn't been the best, it is getting more and more under control as I learn how to best manage my lifestyle and the needs of my condition. 
1	I do not have many experiences with health or medical issues. The issue that I take the most care is my sexual health and get tested often, use birth control to manage cramps and acne and went and got an IUD which really helped
1	MY EXPERIENCE WITH MY LUNG FIBROSIS. DIDN'T KNOW MUCH ABOUT IT IN THE BEGINNING BUT HAVE BECOME MORE KNOWLEDGEABLE AND ASK QUESTIONS AND DO RESEARCH CONTINUALLY.
1	My son was born with spina bifida two years ago. Every time I take him to a doctors apartment I have to make medical decisions and asses his progress at home. After his spinal closure as a newborn I had to treat his closure, administer medication, and preform sterile procedures. 
-1	An individual had a diabetic collapse in a store that I was shopping in. I recognized the signs of the episode and immediately provided the individual with a bottle of oranges juice and he was fine minutes later. I've see it before so I never forgot about it and used that knowledge in that situation.
1	I had to give my nephew his doses of medicines every day when he got home from school. Too much would have really hurt him and not giving him the right things could have hurt or killed him. I had to make sure every dosage was right according to the doctors orders.
1	My daughter was born prematurely and insisted that she was ready to eat on her own before the doctors and nurses were comfortable removing her feeding tube. They agreed to remove her feeding tube and she performed so well that she was released from intensive care 48 hours later. 
1	A friend was diagnosed with breast cancer.  I explained what I knew about stages, treatments options I had read about and what recovery was like.  When she started having challenges with treatment outcomes, I helped her find a new doctor.  
1	I have scoliosis, so I know a lot about it. I won first place in a state competition for my knowledge of scoliosis.
1	When I knew I had shingles before I even went to the doctor. I tend to look up symptoms of however I'm feeling/looking exhaustively so I know I'm not wasting my doctors limited time. 
-1	I was visiting a doctor for my GI issues.  My previous research allowed me to discuss exactly what parts of my body that I was experiencing pain.  I was able to understand his terminology like Bile.
1	I dont really have any of these experiences.  I rarely get sick and very unfamiliar with medical terminology and conditions.
1	I developed a severe case of hives all over my body that required 3 trips to the ER.  I was 45 and never had hives before, my DR insisted it was something I ate, I knew it wasn't.  I went over the previous day and figured out that I had brought a big bunch of sunflowers to work and had the AC on in recirculate the air and I breathed in all that pollen,  took her a few days but she agreed with me
1	When I gained a lot of weight due to some medication that I had been prescribed, I wanted to lose it.  I knew what the implications of carrying that extra weight around were for my body and it was not acceptable to me.  I knew how to do do a weight loss program with healthy eating and exercise without any medication to help me lose weight.
-1	I was feeling very ill and I decided to do some research before going to the doctor. I knew the basics about my health and was able to use that knowledge to get a good grasp on what was going on with me.
-1	I always research when someone I love gets sick or has an injury. I raised five sons and nursed my parents and three friends who all died of cancer. 
1	I had a blood clot and was told by the walk-in care that it was just a bug bite.  I researched my symptoms on my computer and determined that it appeared to be a blood clot.  I went to a different hospital and they agreed.  I was immediately admitted for my condition and it ended up saving my life.
1	Well for a long time I kept getting a burning in my chest. Doctor and I were not sure what was causing it. Initially we both thought it was bronchitis as I also had trouble breathing. After inhalers and steroids didn't help, we thought it might be heartburn, as I've had history of acid reflux and stomach issues. So after being on prilosec for a bit, I noticed I still had the burning in my chest. It was then I noticed that it occurred when my heartrate went up. So after informing my Doctor of this, we knew it was heart related, and pin pointed the issue. 
1	Last winter I slipped on ice and fell hard. For nearly a month I walked around in a CVS splint while everyone told me to go to the doctor and get it checked out. The swelling had gone down and the pain was not so bad so I was convinced it was a bad sprain .. except for it didnt get better. Finally I went to get it looked at and instantly the doctor knew my wrist was broken. He thought I was an idiot basically. I ended up getting a plate and screws put in and was lucky I didnt wait longer because it had to be rebroken and reset. Duh.
1	I was somewhat diagnosed with PCOS several years ago. I had diagnostic testing but I recall it being inconclusive if I actually cystic ovaries. The doctor made the diagnosis based on bloodwork and symptoms (acne).
-1	My personal experience with rare conditions, 1 taking 5 years to diagnose. Also caretaking a dear friend that passed of cancer and others I care about trying to help.
1	My life in general is a constant experience regarding medical knowledge and issues. I am always suspicious when Doctors are to quick to prescribe the latest pharmacuticals on the market which they can profit highly from pending the issuance of insurance coverage. Ignorance is not bliss, it is deadly.
-1	From my pharmacy experience, I was able to notice that a relative, who was suddenly having issues after beginning a medication, was given two contraindicated medications that interact with each other.
1	An experience that I knew about my health problem was with my scoliosis issue. My ribs frequently come out of place which is why I see a DO. Seeing the chiropractor is also an issue, and while I am aware of the pros and cons of seeing a chiropractor, it is not covered by my insurance. I know how to do stretches and exercises that help my scoliosis and have discussed this with my primary care physician. 
1	"I am actually in a more ""extreme"" situation than most people right now because I unfortunately had to become my husband's caregiver at a young age (28)... He shot himself in the head and is now quadriplegic. I have had to learn a great deal about how to care for a person in his condition, physical and occupational therapy, (mental health therapy for myself), medicines, diagnoses, possible future outcome, etc. all within the past year and in a very short amount of time. I wish I wouldn't be in the position to have had to learn all of these things in this kind of circumstance but it definitely has taught me a lot."
1	i was misdiagnosed with a skin condition. i did a lot of research and ended up having to tell the doctor what was wrong with me.
1	When my grandpa went to the hospital and the doctor started asking questions about his daily life and any medical issues that he might have faced, I had to answer for him as he was too weak to talk. I utilized whatever medical knowledge I had to help the doctor understand what was going on. 
1	I am a retired pharmacist with over 40 years experience and worked in a hospital setting for the last 7 years.  When I found out 20 years ago that I had a nodule on my thyroid I totally trusted the doctor and DID not do any of my own research and 10 years later after believed I was cured I found out I was in permanent A Fib so from then on I have research EVERY time I have been diagnosed with any condition and you wouldn't even believe what I went through to get treatment for cataracts and epi retinal membrane......
1	I was able to understand what my doctor was saying. I was familiar with  the drugs given which was found helpful at the pharmacy as well.
1	When I worked in a skilled nursing facility as an occupational therapy assistant, I often had to assist patients in daily activities that would improve their overall health and well being.  Often times, I would explain how these activities were beneficial to their health whether it be through diet, exercise, or teaching them different techniques to ensure their safety.  
1	I have visited the hospital when my mother was seriously ill and was able to converse with her doctors to determine her statistical prognosis of going into remission
1	I have high cholesterol and I have been able to control the problem with diet and exercise. My mother had a stroke and I was able to help her recovery through what I learned from doctors and my own independent research 
1	As a teenager I was given Accutane for acne. I understood the significant side effects of skin dryness as well as increased sun sensitivity, and liver issues. I made the decision to take the drug despite the concerns. 
-1	when I had gestational diabetes I learned to read health label to keep track of carbs and manage my blood sugars that is about all of the experience I have with knowledge of health or medical issues.  My first pregnancy was smooth my doctor told me what I needed to know and I followed suggestions.
-1	I was diagnosed with an underactive Thyroid so i had to undergo many blood tests to find the proper dosage of medication. I see a doctor every three months making me very familiar with that particular illness.
1	I was aware that diabetes required a specific diet. For my mother, who had a 3 month average blood sugar of 350mgs, I changed her diet substantially. In three months, we reduced carbohydrate intake and adhered to foods lower on the hypoglycemic index. This was coupled with an emphasis on water and diet drinks as opposed to normal soft drinks with sugar. After the three month period, her average three month blood sugar was reduced to about 150 mgs.
1	I can take care of my children when they are ill. there are some allergic reactions in my family and I know from experience when they need to seek medical attention.
1	Being one of the main care takers when my grandmother had CHF, I had to learn about the medication and what to do to take care of my mother. We had to go visit the doctors and I had to tell them what medications were for what. I also had to explain to my grandmother what the medication did for her too. 
1	When I brought my child to the doctor and she was diagnosed with pneumonia and/or bronchial disease. I had little knowledge about the different and when she was explaining it I thought I knew what she was saying. But then I was trying to explain that to someone else and I felt lost. The doctor thought that she was explaining it well but maybe I was just not understanding.
1	I researched a lot into chronic rhinitis before going to the doctor for the fifth time or so.  When I was there, based on what I read I thought that what the doctor was advising me to take didn't make much sense because I know that I don't have allergies and past antihistimines haven't helped me, so I asked if something might be better than that.  He gave me something different, which didn't help either unfortunately.  
1	I'm not exactly sure what experience to write about, but about 10 years ago, I stopped eating meat. I was quite concerned about getting enough protein, iron, and vitamin b12, so I planned my diet in a way that I would get the nutrients I need and remain healthy. I ate a diverse diet and made sure I had at least the recommended amount of each most days. When I had to get a blood test done 5 years later, everything was normal. I'd like to think that the care I took about planning my meals contributed to that. 
-1	I have. Food allergies one day my friend was feeling bad I saw all the signs of food allergy I shot her up with my episode pen 
1	Taking care of spouses who had diabetes taught me a lot about the disease. I lived with one husband who had Type 1, juvenile diabetes. It claimed his life when he was 53 years old because he did not adhere to established guidelines for people with Type 1. I learned about the differences between Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes and about the Isles of Langerhorn in the pancreas which produce insulin. I learned that a person can be producing too little insulin or the insulin being produced is not being metabolized correctly. I also learned how to help someone in insulin shock which is not the same as diabetic coma.
1	My husdand and two sons have a condition called Von Willebrand Disease (VWD) which is a genetic clotting disorder. I think, I am fairly knowledgeable about VWD. I have administered humate-p intravenously to my husband on a couple of occasions. 
1	My cousin got her tooth out and I knew exactly how to take care of her and what would happen if she didn't treat the extraction spot properly. 
1	I make sure to ask questions when I don't understand why I am doing something. I also make sure to stay insured at all times, which demonstrates my understanding of health risks.
1	I have been diagnosed with scoliosis and degeritive spine disease.  I knew immediately what that ment when the dr told me and have a pretty good idea of what to do to avoid surgery and live a normal life.
1	I have a child with Autism. A close childhood friend of mine has a son about a year older than my own. After my son was officially diagnosed, she and I would compare our boys' behaviors. She insisted that her son exhibited the same characteristics that diagnosed my son with Autism; however, her doctors would not acknowledge her son's symptoms. Several years later, her son received and official Autism diagnosis and was able to receive beneficial services.
-1	I haven't had anything majorly life threatening happen to me so I don't have a lot of knowledge or experience about very many medical conditions. However, I learned a lot about women and newborns when I gave birth to my two children. I also really enjoyed learning about breastfeeding and helped a lot of my friends breastfeed successfully. 
1	My mother has suffered from bladder cancer. She is elderly and not able to understand fully the information her doctor gives her. I explain to her what is happening with her cancer and what the doctor expects to happen.
1	I helped care for my grandmother for 3 years ans had to help alot with her medical iaaues. She was in and out of the dr office with her old age and I saw alot of medical documents 
-1	When I had pneumonia I recognized the symptoms. I went to the emergency room and they diagnosed me. While at home I medicated myself and tried to treat it but I realized that this needed medical attention. I think that if I didn't know the symptoms and I stayed home I would have had a worse outcome. Because of what I knew I wemt amd got medical care.
1	When I had an ankle injury in college, athletic trainers helping me with that injury kept recommending ice, compression, and water running to keep fitness. I took note of the name of the injury and checked medical journals and found a tiny minority of people with this injury healed without surgery - so I sought out a surgeon to fix it instead.
1	When my grandmother was being examined by a neurologist he made her stand up and close her eyes and try to remain balanced. She could not keep her balance. We knew that her spinal cord was inflamed and I concluded that her cerebellum, which is the part of the brain that controls balance may also be affected. 
1	I know how to take blood and also how to read the blood pressure monitor. I also took care of my mom one night when she was about to have a stroke I recognized it in the early stages when she started to slur and then she could not raise her hand so I  called for the ambulance immediately
-1	I recent battled breast cancer and won. I had a port put in, went threw 26 weeks of chemo and a mastectomy. 
1	For about three years I had my throat progressively closing up. I had to go to a Gastroenterology specialist because it was determined it might be a GERD issues that might be causing this my throat issue.  I had three procedures where my throat was opened up, but the Dr. could quite figure out what was going on as each endoscopy was returning nothing that could explain the obstruction. I started doing research on possible causes one possible cause took my attention. I knew because of other unrelated testing, that my iron was low, and in my research, a possible cause showed that low iron could be responsible for webs forming in the throat area. During my follow up meeting I asked the Dr. about this and after he ordered additional blood work, he confirmed that it was my iron-levels were the reason for the obstruction. He prescribed iron and I have not had to go back since. 
-1	I read a lot medical journals and articles a few times a week because the topic interests me. I've also worked in a hospital for 2 years and became quite familiar with some medical terminology, practices, and illnesses.
1	Years ago I had an ectopic pregnancy. I knew something was wrong but there wasn't anything seen on the ultra sound. I was well informed as to what symptoms constituted an emergency. Sure enough a few days later my tube burst and I knew exactly what to do... Get to the ER.
-1	I demonstrate my knowledge of health when I talk with my boss in the morning. He already ask me my recommendations.
-1	When I started having lumps under my skin, which I knew to be a complication due to the Alpha One Anti-tripsyn deficiency, and my doctors didn't know anything about it. It is a condition called Panniculititis and it is due to my lack of alpha one protein, and I had to educate my own doctor about this.
1	During my educational years, I was pretty proficient in science. One of my favorite subjects. And also, my teachers throughout high school would discuss health, health issues, and medical procedures. Then there are also medical shows on tv that also go into those things as well. 
1	I have a friend who was telling me he was having wine and I knew he was on anxiety medication. I asked him about it. He said his doctor said an occasional glass was fine. He also said he spaced a lot of time between a glass or two of wine and his med.
1	Uh, I dunno. I don't get sick very often and when I do, it's just for a few days and it's never that severe. The worst time I can recall is when I got food poisoning a few months ago and that lasted one day (one horrible, puking day). I've never had an experience that I would say demonstrated high knowledge of medical science.
-1	When my mother had the flu I helped take care of her, making sure she took not too much Tylenol and gave her plenty of fluids, etc.
1	When my best friend was having a problem, he thought it might be an STD or some other infection. I told him about my own experience with prostatitis. His symptoms sounded eerily similar, including intense pain when he urinated. Sure enough, when he went to the doctor for an exam, they eventually reached the conclusion that his prostate was inflamed.
1	The only real main surgical procedure that I've ever had done was a repair of my rotator cuff.  The surgery also cleaned up some cartilage that was floating around and shave down some bone spurs.  The procedure went with no problems and the doctor was very accurate when he told me the expected recovery time and any potential issues that may popup.  Within 6 months I was 90% recovered and by 18 months I felt 100% again.
-1	Three years ago my grandfather was diagnosed with CHF.  With this diet certain things need to happen to ensure his condition is stable.  Taking his weight 2x a day along with his BP.  Also I need to monitor his salt.  I have had to learn about healthy and safe weightgain or loss.  Proper reading of nutrition lables.  How to take a BP and the importance of his medications to keep him healthy.
1	I haven't been faced with situation where I had to exercise any medical knowledge, most of my experience has been with accompanying patients and being there for emotional support.
-1	an experience that demonstrated the knowledge of my health issues was me having an asthma attack. I knew the symptoms of asthma while knowing other friends who have it. However, when I felt the same symptoms I knew that I was having an asthma attack. this allowed me to get to the hospital quicker and not have to wait around the paramedics to come. It was very disturbing because I didn't know what my outcome was going to be. However, I was able to make it there on time and get sorted out while the doctors giving me prescription to help ease the pain. 
1	I have had a positive mammogram, and also am diabetic.  I am required to understand what is going on because nobody else will do it for me.
1	I was told I had an infection in my lungs because I smoked too much and it infected my lung sacs. I was told to take an inhaler and some antibiotics and the doctor told me to stop smoking or chances are ill develop cancer in a few years or sooner.
1	I received a PhD in public health in August of 2016. I wrote a dissertation on the link between intimate partner violence and HIV risk.
-1	Well I don't know a ton of  stuff honestly but I know enough about traumatic injuries and we were playing basketball and my friend hurt his foot really badly and he kept saying it was broken and i said it was sprained so we went to the doctor and he ended up having it sprained and not broke.
1	A few years ago during a stressful time in my life, my weight rose to 180 pounds.  I decided that I needed to make some changes in my life.  I started with tracking my meals in a food log on my phone and taking a daily measurement of my weight.  After a few weeks, I was able to determine that I was consuming far too many calories and that most of those extra calories came from a few empty calorie sources.  Over the course of the next few months, I slowly adjusted my diet, cutting out many empty calories and trying to add more nutrient dense foods.  After I year, I had lost 30 pounds and have been able to maintain a weight of around 150 pounds for the last few months.
1	The more often a person is prescribed antibiotics the less effective they will be.  When I do have sinusitis that is bad enough to make me actually see a doctor (feeling like I am dying) I have to tell them not to bother writing a script for amoxicillin because I won't bother filling it as it will not work, it's like eating a bottle of Tic Tacs for me at this point.
1	At my age I am regularly scanned for colon cancer. It is common. While many people avoid it, I understand that avoiding it can cause rectal or colon cancer.  If detected early it is treatable.  I go every 5 years. I took one at 50 and 55
1	Whenever I go to see the doctor, I make sure to request that I be tested for diseases that have symptoms similar to what I'm experiencing.  The doctor usually suggests testing for very basic things, but I know that names of the tests and procedures that need to be done for other diseases that the doctor has overlooked.
-1	Once, I was prescribed an antibiotic.  I informed the doctor I was allergic to penicillin.  After reviewing the prescription, I got it filled.  The pharmacy I visit has my health information on file.  After turning it in, I was called to the front and informed the medicine was in the same family as penicillin.  I had no idea what that meant.  The pharmacist explained that I was probably allergic to it.  I was so mad! I had told the doctor what I was allergic to! If the pharmacist hadnt warned me, I could have been in big trouble. So mad!
1	I was a certified CNA for a few years. I have also worked in Home Health Care for several years. I took care of the elderly and several family members with health issues. 
-1	I did some medical research and realized that some symptoms I had might be similar to the symptoms for hypothyroidism. I talked to my doctor about it and we did a blood test. My blood test was negative for the disease, but it's still good that we tested for it.
1	I work as a medical coder and biller. I know a lot about health insurance. I have been able to educate several of my clinics Medicare patients.
1	"My grandmother was 87 yo and in need of a hip replacement.  Her maternal longivity history included an aunt who lived to 107 and her grandmother who lived to 100.  Her primary care doctor did not want to recommend a hip replacement surgery because of the HMO ""at risk"" plan she had.  I accompanied my grandmother to her physician, explained I understood his reasoning for not recommending the surgery and asking him to reconsider or I would take her case to the state board.  She received the surgery and turned 108 in December 2017.  The new hip has lasted 20 years."
1	I had done some reading about medical robotics before I actually saw any actual footage. So when I looked at the footage, I was able to identify what tools and what process was being done. It was fascinating to see what I had only beforehand read about in front of me.
1	I am an analyst for a living.   I have sleep apnea.    With out a CPAP machine, I stop breathing and night and I am not able to concentrate during the day.   Therefore, by following therapy, I am able to have a better quality of life.
1	Recently a close friend was exhibiting symptoms of the flu, but thought that it might just be a cold. I asked to take their temperature, as I know that the big difference between the flu and a cold are a fever.
-1	I was in a motorcycle accident and shattered my vertebra . I was on medications and had to follow and set up how much and when to take the meds. Also had to deal with insurance papers. 
-1	Both my parents were alcoholics. I never cared for alcohol, probably because of them. My mother was also a diabetic. My mother's mother was a diabetic and I remember as a child, she had her leg amputated. My father died of cirrhosis of the liver at age 69, my mother died from a stroke at age 61. My younger sister (age 62) is blind from the effects of sugar diabetes. My brother died in 1999 at the age of 39 from cirrhosis of the liver. With all this going on, I've always been aware that I want to be healthy. It's not easy. I weight 184, 5 foot 2, work at a very physical job which benefits me. I have good teeth, get around good, except for my weight. 
-1	I think when you see problem you should go to hospital or doctor.The deep lesson is that civil servants always have to behave civilly at the office and in the community where the leader needs to be exemplary.
-1	I grew up with a bi-polar mother. Over time I realized I was bi-polar by some of the traits I was starting to exhibit.
1	Having a baby definitely made me more knowledgeable. From start to finish, I learned about my changing body and building a baby inside of me. Many things were different after I had the baby and learning about the signs and things to look for on a growing baby or just sickness in general. You learn a lot becoming a parent so it definitely makes you pretty familiar with medical issues.
-1	I worked on a icu step down unit in a local hospital where many times I was involved with caring for high risk patients. You have to be alert and aware to even be employed by this unit. Also I own my own licensed massage therapy business and have been in practice 15 years
-1	I could write a novel here.  There is no one experience, rather a conglomeration of them, from dealing with ill large and small livestock and dogs in a farm setting where the vet leaves you with drugs and iv's to make judgement calls and administer yourself,  to having many of my own injuries to being a caregiver for both parents, to breaking my own neck.  I am, sadly, very wise to the obvious workings of the human body, from how it responds to colds to cancer and 3rd degree full thickness burns.  When I make a judgment call on a medical issue I am usually, but not always right, be it for myself, or another.
1	When my sister was dieing from a critical lung disease, after having a double lung transplant, I was responsible for home care of her wounds healing and of distribution of her medications  
-1	a time is when my niece was choking and I asked my sister in law if they had a bulb to take the mucus out of my baby niece 
-1	Since my car accident a few years ago, I have had to keep fairly well informed of the procedures and medications that have been administered to me for treatment. Nothing can be taken for granted these days, including your own well being. 
1	My partner is on home dialysis.  My job is to determine tweaks to treatment and dietary changes, based on his labs, to give him the best possible outcome. 
1	I was an EMT during my college years. One of our calls was for a passed out man who smelled of alcohol. I suspected diabetes and called in my suspicion on our way to the hospital. My suspicions were correct based on hospital records however we did not treat with meds for diabetic shock.
1	I used to sell pharmaceutical's professionally so I have countless examples. One time, I held a luncheon at a teaching hospital for Cardiology fellows. I gave them a brief talk about a fairly new anti-arrhythmic medication, then later I met with several of them individually and in small groups. I was asked many questions and was able to provide them with safety and efficacy statistics and studies. 
1	I do not have a lot of health and medical knowledge outside of what a normal person would have that is common knowledge.
1	The last time I had a respiratory infection, (5 years ago) I monitored my temperature closely, covered my mouth during coughs and sneezes, and followed my doctor's treatment plan.
1	in some point of my life, I have learned and read a lot of medicine and medical diseases, and in one situations i got a bad cold and i knew it and i took the cure about my self
1	Almost every instance I can think of demonstrates my *lack* of knowledge, so this is a hard question. But I've kept my husband alive through 30 years of a still-undiagnosed progressive neuromuscular disorder (he was diagnosed at first with ALS, and it looks a lot like that). I've taken him to emergency for what's turned out to be pericarditis, and for TIAs. I talk to his doctors. He's still alive, so there's that.
1	"I have had to advocate most of all my life for my early onset medical problems at a young age. I had to speak to that ten percent of those medical staff who were apathetic, disinterested, and hateful about not giving me certain medications that caused my health problems to get worse. I am glad that I learned from a few other ""good"" and honest doctors to 'gently' research my conditions and medications that I take."
1	I had a script incorrectly filled at a pharmacy one time.  They accidentally gave me a different milligram strength than the one I was prescribed.  I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues by identifying that the pills were not as prescribed, and having the error corrected. 
-1	"My father passed away last year after a unexpected medical issue. My husband and I being the only medically knowledgeable parts of the family were able to ask about his liver and kidney status and brain function. We also understood what the outcome was with him being placed on the ventilator and the ""reflexes"" he was exhibiting where as my other family members took it as signs that he would be better when he wasn't going to."
1	I looked up information online on how to do some basic exercises. I have not been physically fit for a while and wanted to try to be active again.
-1	I take the time to discuss my health with my doctor. I also see my nurse clinic each month for a BP check. My health website has a lot of information on wellness and preventive care.
-1	My mother was always very health conscious because of health conditions that run in our family. She in turn taught me to be very health conscious. I also work in a hospital, as has my mother for most of my life.
-1	I worked in the field of HIV care and treatment in many years. I was most confident in reading testing reports regarding one's CD4 count and viral load counts. I was also most comfortable in anti retroviral medications prescribed by physicians in my clinic.
1	One experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues involved a group of friends and myself hanging out. The guys in the group were being rambunctious and wrestling inside the house (something which was not recommended). At one point, one of the guys tripped and fell hitting his head on the corner of the television. It immediately began bleeding and he was unsure as to what he should do so he immediately came to me. My suggestion was to first stop the bleeding (apply slight pressure to the area), check his cognitive functioning/vision, and make sure he didn't fall asleep, and stay positive/encouraging so he would not panic. After a little while the bleeding stopped and we further assessed his state. I gave him ibuprofen and continued to monitor his state for the next couple of hours making sure that he knew we could go to the hospital if need be.
1	When friends of mine are mixing recreational drugs, I can tell them if that is relatively safe or not. For example, I make sure my friends never combine 2 or more GABAergics.
-1	I'm not sure that I really have any experiences in my life that would demonstrate  my knowledge of health or medical issues, I just can't think of anything now sorry
1	Last week I had pink eye, I know like many, the medical term is conjunctivitis, I knew it had viral and bacterial forms (and found out allergic as well). I knew that an antibiotic could help if it was bacterial in nature and over the counter medicines could treat the symptoms. I knew that the secretion that comes with pink eye is typically called discharge. I knew the cornea was the part of the eye that shows irritation. And some other stuff you get the idea.
1	I don't know if I have any experiences as such. I remember having a cough that was pretty bad and I coughed very hard and heard something snap in my side and was a deep pain. I had bruising in the area and just knew that I had separated my ribs in that area. It was confirmed later on.
1	I took care of my elderly grandpa for a long time. I was always keeping track of his lab results and specifically his A1C levels because he has diabetes. I went with him to all his doctor appointments to be informed on what he needed. 
1	An experience in my life where I had knowledge of a medical issue was when I was coaching a family member on how to eat healthier.  This family member is obese and at risk for diabetes, so it was time to make a change. We came up with a better meal plan; cutting out a lot of sugar and adding more protein, fruits, and vegetables.  We also came up with an exercise plan, where my family member joined a gym and went multiple times a week. He lost a lot of weight and felt a lot better overall. His blood test numbers improved at the doctor.
1	Every time that I see a new doctor I have to explain my traumatic brain injury and the effect it has had on my life.  More than a few times, doctors have told me that they were impressed with my knowledge of my issues and the brain in general, but I always reply that it's my responsibility as a TBI patient.
1	One time in life that demonstrated my knowledge about medical issues is when I made a home remedy to kill my cold. I use peroxide, lemon juice,  baking soda,  and some salt.  I was able to get rid of my cold  more quicker than I have ever expected.  This was one time in life that I demonstrated my knowledge in medical issues;  and it helped me to get rid of my cold.
-1	There was a time that my son was having little red bumps and itches all over his body and fever right away I Soum that it was chickenpox two to my prior knowledge being that my goddaughter had it the year prior
-1	 when I was in college my first choice  to go to into the medical field along the way i changed my mind hiw ever i took some mefical courses thats why i have some knowledge
1	A good friend was planning to use alternative remedies (magic chanting, and smelling things, and thinking good thoughts) instead of getting actual medical treatment, and I implored her to use real medicine instead of wishing for a wizard to cure her.
1	I made the decision not to terminate a pregnancy even though there was a high risk of genetic abnormality because I did a lot of research and questioned the statistics provided by the doctor
1	I have worked in the medical field and nutrition as a patient coordinator for about 9 years. I have worked around doctors for a long time and my mother was a nurse. I was able to read my own labwork and then determine what I should adjust in my diet to be a little healthier, and it worked.
1	My child had foul breath and an ear ache. It was clear to me that she had strep throut but the doctor didn't think so. She ordered the test and it came back negative. my daughter then developed a high fever and i brought her back a few days later. Her strep test finally came back positive.
-1	Just learned it through the experiences when I went to see my primary care physician. Learned new things every time I go there for a visit. 
1	When my dad had a stroke he was also diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. I was his primary caregiver while he recovered. I educated myself about diabetes and helped manage his diabetes. I prepared his meals and counted his carbs since he was on a carbohydrate limited diet (about 60 g of carbs/per meal). Within a few months the healthy diet resulted in weight loss and a significant reduction in insulin needs. 
-1	I have to demonstrate my medical knowledge when I had to take a nutrition class in college. There were several tests about the effects of what type that is good for the body base on the different medical issues. 
1	I am usually able to have a coherent back and forth conversation with my doctor. Meaning, When my doctor talks to me about even new things in medicine, I usually have already read about it enough to have a conversation with her about it. Recently we discussed how the gut is very much related to anxiety and how we eat is a chain reaction to anxiety. 
1	Wrote a paper in college on acupuncture vs. placebo vs. traditional western medicine outcomes. Turns out there probably is something to acupuncture but it's never better than western medicine procedures/drugs and it only ever treats symptoms.
1	When I went to physical therapy after breaking my right elbow and left wrist from a motorcycle accident. The physical therapist asked me about my injuries and other details where I then explained to him everything that I knew from both what the doctors told me as well as what I knew previously and what I learned from doing my own research regarding the rehabilitation process and procedures that should be taken and followed to get the most positive results possible.
1	I recently went in with nerve pain in my shoulder and I had done research before and correctly diagnosed myself with a supra scapular nerve injury.
1	When I had an inflamed sweat gland and my doctor kept telling me it was and inflamed lymph node. The reason why I knew it wasn't was because I had googled it and spent time reading discussions and symptoms about it alone. The treatment my doctor gave me was wrong. After months, turns out I was right and my doctor was wrong.
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my son was small.  He had chronic bronchitis, as diagnosed by the doctor.  It got to the point where I instantly knew what to do to treat him, rather than take him to the doctor every time he got sick with bronchitis.  We had a standing prescription for his breathing machine.
1	I would say that I have some knowledge about eating healthy and trying to use healthy eating habits to maintain a normal and healthy weight
-1	My experience has been giving birth to children. I've done it 4 times so when someone comes to me with questions about the process i'm able to assists.
-1	I just want to be healthy and live my life til the fullest I don't care if anything happen as long as I'm healthy and strong I know God have my back at all times 
-1	I went to a dermatologist for my acne issues and they told me the more technical term for my type of acne.  The doctor went in grand detail about what my acne was called and that was the first time that I received a diagnosis about my acne.
-1	Regular doctor visits and follow up with my doctor. I am not afraid of needles, mammograms , cat scans or exrays. Therefore I am always willing to visit the doctor.
-1	Take care of my health and not eating too many salty food, exercise more drink a lot of water, follow doctors order 
-1	My dad had an heart attack at age 40 and he had to have heart surgery. It was then that I researched what it took to have a healthy heart. 
-1	My knowledge of medical issues stems from the fact that my mother suffers from chronic migraines. I have went with her to doctor visits and listened intently to everything he told her. Also, I studied healthcare, so I have an extensive knowledge of medical and health conditions.
-1	Went to the doctor and was feeling real bad and found out that I had high blood pressure and they gave me medicine to cure it
-1	I have asthma and I knew to get my breathing under control I needed a breathing treatment and steriods
1	I have made a decision based on research and knowledge of my family history to not take statins because of the risk of liver disease.  
-1	I have never had any health issues  in my like I have a pretty good health conditions  but I stay caught up with appointment  to make sure I'm always good
-1	One day, I got a chalazion on my eye. I looked up the symptoms, identified the condition and explained it to a physician.
1	When I explained to someone that the bacteria that causes chlamydia also causes, ring worm, jock itch, and yeast infections. 
-1	I needed a surgery for a back surgery and I knew someone that went through the same procedure. I did rely on them for support and asked them questions about the tests and procedure.
-1	Years back I had a my blood pressure checked and it was high because I had too much sodium in my blood and not enough water, so I waited a day and i made sure that I didn't consume too much sodium and I drank plenty of water and when I check my blood pressure again it was back at its normal level.
-1	I had a  pancreas problem that is how I know about health and medical issues. And I also know what to do and not to do
-1	When I was told that i had to have a neck fushion and then another and another and right now because of it I have no feelings in my neck at all
-1	I had a bad cold and it was just the same thing take medication but I really don't know nothing about health issues I'm healthy 
-1	when I had to help a loved one who had gastritis.I followed the doctor's advice,researched online, and applied what I knew.The person recovered.
-1	I have scoliosis but because it's never been explained to me treatments I still have it With no knowledge of how to cure it
-1	i do my own research all of the time. i constantly show my knowledge of various issues and have published research in my field.
-1	seeing and hearing relatives paas away and the percentage of these studies but doesnt eqauate this is the real mpeople who depend on these findings
-1	I don't have much knowledge of my health or medical issues because there is still a lot that I still need to learn. 
-1	I am very knowledgeable because I am a very smart girl. That is the reason why I passed high school and went off to college
-1	when I started watching food documentaries and stasrtedcstudying all the different foods I was eating and all the vitaminns I was taking
-1	Every month, I have monthly labs. I understand my numbers forwards and backwards. I understand where my phosphorus, potassium, etc needs to be at all times.
-1	I needed to check my iron intake. So in each vegetable cans That i took that day, I check the iron percentage and I calculated the amount I was taking. 
1	I dunno... just recently I had a thing on my skin. I was able to recognize that it was outside of the sphere of my knowledge, so I sought the opinion of an expert. Knowing what you DON'T know is just as important as knowing what you DO know.
-1	I am not aware of the topic, I may need a lighter version so I can convey myself better.  I am sorry but I do not understand the passage
-1	I was having severe gastro problems. I could not get relief with over the counter medicine. I was constantly vomiting, and had to call someone to take me to the hospital. I have a case of Gerd, neiumx was my only relief, as well as changing eating habits.
-1	I had a fellow church member who was describing the fact that the medicine that they were taking made them cough. I remembered a previous article that I read that described that the medicine produced coughing in black women. I told her about the article that I read. 
-1	I do not have an experience in my life where I have demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	I have a son with a medical condition. I thoroughly did my own research, presented it to the pediatrician who then diagnosed my son with the condition that I had suspected after examining him. 
-1	I knew I had a bladder infection when it felt like I was burning. Also, I knew that a patient had a bedsore when I could see down to the bone.
-1	I have been prescribed a medicine where the doctor stated some side effects but not all. He stated the ones most likely to occur. However, I experienced the side effects not likely to occur and I researched the medication to see what others had experienced taken the medicine.
-1	The experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of a medical issue was when my mom was diagnosed with lung cancer i tried my best to learn all there was about the treatment
-1	Many years ago when experienced having high blood pressure for eating bad food. The doctor explained to me that I had to change the way I eat, or there will be other risks such heart attack. I initially took action and took the doctor advice.
-1	it when I was told I had sleep aphnea. The Doctor explained if I didn't stay on the sleep apnea machine it I could developed problems with my vitals organs. So I listened to him and use the machine every night.
-1	I have had no significant health issues so I am unsure I can answer the question appropriately                                                                                                   
-1	Being able to take my own blood pressure, being able to read my medical test results without help, understanding the medical terminology presented for specific health issues or knowing where to find out what it means
-1	I have problems with my back I'm in severe pain 80% of my daily activities no matter how much medication I take it still does control the pain not even if I control my stress or blood pressure.
-1	I can't really think of any concrete examples, but I usually have those moments when I find out something is wrong with my mom.
-1	What my hey eh to be a good day at work and the rest of your day been and stuffed up and I will be there in a few minutes late to the gym now so I'll just get it in a couple more weeks to see the email from my account and I will be there in about an hour
-1	I understand my exact medical condition but and what to do if something really bad happened and we're would I go and what would i do
-1	My breast was hurting deep down in every time i swept the floor. so i went in to see the doctor. and he couldn't feel any lumps in my breast,  so he sent me for a mammogram and it showed i  had a tumor that was benign.
-1	I have had hypertension for several years now and I have learned that with a change in my diet, proper rest  and simply take a nice walk has the ability to actual lower my blood pressure therefore lowering my medication.
1	I am aware of medical issues because when the doctor gives me a diagnosis I know what is going on with my health I can take the appropriate action to make myself get better. For instance when I had a condition, I went to the doctor voicing my concerns. I took a diagnostic test. The doctor interpreted the results. I asked questions. I took the proper steps and obtained medication to get better.
-1	i found my brother un responsive at home, i immediately checked pulse , blood sugar and blood pressure to find that his blood sugar was low, gave him some ketchup to bring up while await for insulin.
-1	That I have never been through the process the I've no that I need what to do to take care of myself in the future
-1	deppresion it was really tough it took a while to get over that i really went totally crazy at the tine
-1	I haven't had a moment that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues. Maybe in the future I'll have the moment to show my expertise.
-1	I haven't had any medical expenses except for the flu once. I have basically been very healthy so far.
-1	A MAN FELL OUT IN A STORE, HE STARTED SHAKING AND I KNEW THAT HE WAS HAVING A SEIZURE. I DID KNOW HOW TO DO CPR, I KNOW OF IT. SO I TOLD THE PEOPLE WORKING IN THE STORE TO CALL AN AMBULANCE.
1	I have worked in a pharmacy as a clerk and an ER as a registration clerk. I have suffered many illnesses
-1	my girlfriend told me she had cancer and i knew she couldn't take her cell in when she got her treatments
-1	When getting a colonoscopy I understand what I had to do before to prepare. I understand the procedure and any diagnose. I knew the possibilities of my colonoscopy coming back abnormal.
-1	I can't think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my health knowledge not like this. I have never been in a situation like this where I would have to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues
1	I self diagnosed a plodial cist from web md. Figured out how to solve the issue without setting foot ana doctors office
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my doctor first told me about my condition. He asked me if I knew what was going on in my body and I was able to correctly tell him.
-1	I have had 9 surgeries rt foot, rt knee, lt knee, rt hip lt hip rt hand 2x fingers rt hand small finger rt wrist . I also have rheumatiod arthritis and get bimonthly infusion to treat. I see primary care doc rheumatologist dermatologist ob/gyn ent
-1	When talking about when to take medicine and doing the timing like if you take them at certain times of the day. The 12 hour or every 4 hour rule
-1	I realize my immune system is not working properly because I keep getting infections and having to get antibiotics 
-1	my mom used to be a nurses aid and i tried to learn some of the things she was learning while at work but i`m older now and dont remember much of what she taught me
-1	I know that to have a baby boy I had to keep my body alkaline, along with other things, I did that my whole pregnancy and I had a boy. My doctor didn't believe me
-1	When my sister died,I found out that I had high blood pressure,and then I found out I was a diabetic.
-1	Right now I can't think of any. I am sure there has been some but  at the moment none come to mind for me
1	I had to have my gallbladder removed. I already knew that the bile would just go into the intestine rather than be stored. 
-1	As i previously mentioned, independently researching my suggested medications, in this case birth control and deciding not to have an IUD implanted or take the most popular option of the pill, instead I chose the arm implant with the fewest size effects and highest effectiveness.
-1	I think when I diagnose myself with OCD because I knew the symptoms and saw a television show about people with similar compulsive disorders
-1	When I was diagnosed with a thyroid condition. I had to have a biopsy because of the calcification of my nodules. Thank God my biopsy came back and I did not have cancer. But that made me research more on my thyroid condition.
-1	One time I went to the doctor because I thought that I had breast cancer and I realized that I had really sensitive skin and had to stop using certain soaps and lotions
-1	I have asthma and have been in and out of the hospital for a majority of my childhood. Since I've been in and out of the hospital for this I do have a strong understanding of my asthma and how to handle it. 
-1	i have trouble walking and standing up real long on my legs so i use a wheelchair to get around the house
-1	An experience  that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues  was when my daughter had symptoms of an ear infection a second time and I was able to tell the doctor that it was an ear infection.
-1	Pain in lower part of back causing it to feel stabbing cramping soreness everywhere causing you to not move
1	In the eight grade I had a friend who experienced epileptic seizures. He had a seizure in class before. From my knowledge of seizures I realized someone had to hold his tongue because there was a possibility he would choke on it because of the seizure.
-1	There hasn't been very many situations in my life where I had to rely on my own health knowledge at all.
-1	i know enough about my health to make me okay with everything and im okay and i try to keep up with changes if need be
-1	My grandmother had cancer and I relate a little more with her illness to see it deteriorate little by little.. 
-1	When I cut my knee and blood was rushing out I knew how to cover it up and make sure it wasn't infected. That is about my only expereince where I did something myself
-1	I deal with maysthenia gravis and thyroid disease I have a lot of knowledge about my conditions and not question to ask.
-1	when i was in high school i learned about BMI. Body Mass Index is what it was. i figure out if i was over weight or under
-1	I can't think of any at the moment. Most of my visit have been uneventful. Nothing special to share.
-1	I DO NOT KNOW MUST ABOUT HEALTH BUT YOU NEED TO CARE OF YOUR BODY THE BEST YOU CAN. TRY TO EAT THE RIGHT CAN OF FOOD.
-1	I was knowledgeable about health issues when I started experiencing difficulty with sensation in my hand it was the first and only time I ever experienced tendinitis. It made me feel helpless because with my job I use my hands often I would never want to experience that ever again.
-1	I had an experience with digestion of dairy products. I had to have the knowledge to explain my symptoms.
-1	One time I get getting dizzy when I stood up to fast...I thought maybe it was high blood pressure...there is lot of that in my family history..so i was very familiar with the condition...went to the doctors and i was right
-1	In high school and girl fainted in class. No one knew why and she had been acting sick all day. I saw this and knew something was up and she had told me weeks before that she needed sweets and candy. When the nurse came I offered to help her down stairs. And told the nurses and the teacher that she need to sweets to help her.
-1	having a liver transplant was amazing I learned how the liver works and what cause my to fail. lerned a lot about diease of the liver and how to avoid some.
-1	nothing really I was diagnois with thyroid cancer which I know is serious at first I didn't know how to handle it but then I started praying asking god to give me strength ,but then he did I did a lot of praying till things throu god was looking better for me
-1	constantly feeling the need to pee and having an urgent need to pee. but when going to the bathroom, very little comes out. i knew i had an UTI
-1	my 6 yr old daughter had tonsil stones and i dianose her before i took her to the ear nose and throat doctor and he said thats what they were.
-1	When i was taking my undergraduate, taking biology class was a prerequisite. In my biology class we learnt about HIV/AIDS, how to know when one is HIV positive is when their CD counts goes below 200 only then they start taking anti viral drugs
1	I work in a birthing center. Everyday I am around the medical field. I have to go through people's medical history not only with them but withproviders as well. 
-1	Having to deal with my autistic child and finding the best medical assistance for him,  also when I was pregnant with my both kids. Being pregnant for 9 consecutive months and giving birth naturally. Very overwhelming experience 
-1	I'm not going oute you at work the pantry working the pantry and sexy you at work you can meet up cutie I can put the cards and we are the rest to you guuj you about all
-1	I have no idea about my health when dealing with doctors.  Tjey listen but do not tell what the possibilities are about my health.  Smdh! 
-1	A situation where I demonstrated knowledge of health issues is when my doctor is speaking in medical terminology and I understanding everything 
-1	I have had bladder pain and frequency for many years that went undiagnosed until I did my research and requested specific tests that confirmed the condition I suspected I had all along.
-1	I have had an abnormal papsmear in my younger age and had to have a coloposcopy.  Having this resulted in me having premature births and having to have a cerclage
-1	Anatomy class senior year of high school, I studied many medical issues of variouus different natures.
-1	I would have to say my everyday work life.  I work closely with doctors and nurses,  where I monitor watch the vital signs of patients.  There have been times where I have a identified different heart blocks that even some doctors and nurse do not get. 
-1	I had to figure out when I needed to make an appointment for the obgyn at the right age. I realized I need led to go before I was 22. I also check my heart rate because my heart used to beat fast even when resting.
1	I have not had any major health issues in my life so far. I have had routine examines an d blood test , wich I understood.
-1	one day I was sick and I was able to find out how sick I was because I was sick and I didn't know I was until i got better.
-1	I studied anatomy and physiology in college.  That was many years ago but I still read many articles online to keep up with the latest news about health and nutrition.
-1	Studying biology in college we had a focus on sickle cell anemia. This was a thorough two week study with an essay that was due at the end as well 
1	One of my sibilings spent about 3 months in the hospital and I have learned so many terms and phases.
-1	It was just a lot of arithmetic. Proportions and percentages, and such. There was really no need to know medical information, as long as I could do the math it was fine. 
-1	AM NOT SO SURE BUT POSSIBLE RE-TELLING MY MEDICAL HISTORY TO A NEW DOCTORS IN A NEW COUNTRY. THAT ABOUT ALL
-1	i dont really know. i dont like these math questions thoughh because its not my strong suit but i think i did pretty well
1	Every night, I take prescribed eye drops to keep the pressures in my eyes low. I understand that if I do not apply the medication every night, my pressures will remain high. If my pressures remain high, I will lose peripheral vision at an advanced rate.
-1	The first really big medical issue was having a c-section with my first child.The doctors explained how much safer it was for me and the baby. The baby would of died or had major problems if I had not done this.
-1	Nutrition and fitness taking care of myself and my wellbeing living a healthy lifestyle every day changing routines 
-1	intern  counsleor  at  drug  treatment  VA  outpatient  and  incare   patient  treatment  had  to  do  case work  studies  and group treatment  classes
1	I had a stye on my eye and with the proper research online  I was able to treat my own stye with a hot rag until it went away. 
-1	I am bipolar and have had many experiences when I knew a medicine I was taking wasn't the right one for what was going on with me. I was able to help determine the best medicine -- along with my doctor -- based on previous experiences and research.
-1	When I sprained my knee. It was very difficult trying to get medical attention. In the end I got what I needed. And really. That's all that matters. I'm happy and so should other people
-1	I don't have a moment like that. I always asked questions about what I didn't understand. There was a moment when I was told I had high cholesterol and didn't understand the numbers.
-1	I know about health when I was in school so all my knowledge I learned grew through out my life so I always have to stay healthy.
-1	when my aunt was diagnossd with cancer i knew a lot about how to change her diet and how she need to elimiate sugar because cancer loves sugar 
-1	When I had avr surgery and had to take classes on caring for myself, having a proper diet and how to take the medication
-1	The experience I had that tested my knowledge of my health or medical issues occurs each time I visit a Doctor. 
-1	I had a B9 tumor on my head behind my left eye. I became blind. 6 months later The tumor grew back. I was told the gamma knife would take care of it for life. I started having seizures when I didn't take my tegretols. So I took them for 5 years and decided to not take them anymore. Well I had another seizure. Now I take it everyday also go in to get my tegretol level to be sure I experience no more seizures 
-1	I know my own health issues by the symptoms I repeatedly have. I can tell certain flare ups by how I'm feeling at a given moment. 
-1	While working at the pharmacy and a patient asked me what they're medication was for and the side effects it could have
-1	I can not participate no serious ailments or diagnosis. I understand statement but at this time no ailments only mild situations. Women type issue in which there are over counter remedies but dr visit will help more instantly with replied
-1	 N/A I have absolutely no experience that I can look back at and say it demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	This section sucked. I understsnd medical things but i was not prepaird for a math test. But i think i have a good enough understanding of medical issues
-1	MY father had cellulitis and I pointed it out to the visitng nurse. She said that's not what it was but we took him to the dr. and that is exactly what he had.
-1	When my son was diagnosed with attention deficit hypertension disorder. I was pretty familiar with the disorder and was actually able to know my son had the disorder prior to going to the doctor for the proper diagnosis
-1	I really cannot think of any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health issues that's why I rely on my doctors for guidance.
-1	dx with fibroids and procedure given was detailed and researched by me prior to having it and felt informed and releived
-1	i know for a fact gotsick for beenaround someone had tb and beenaround i got very sick went to the hospital they toldme it was a simply a cold boy what a relieve
-1	i haven't  has an experience that I demonstrated knowledge bout health or.medical issues . there's nothing in my life if any I research about it to understand it more
-1	When it was my senior year of high school, I took a medical terms class. I know a little but not so much since then.
-1	I took classes in the medical field. I am also interested in the medical and curious about all aspects of the medical field.
-1	I never had none in my life. So i wouldn't know. But im sure plenty of family  have. I don't know about it 
-1	I have had sugar issues since 2013. I have had to take my blood and test it. I have had to manage what I eat daily. I have had to exercise  more.
-1	I had a high fever from having a sore throat. I needed to get my fever down and get rid of the sore throat so I bought myself lots of fruits that was packed with Vitamin C and antioxidates to reduce and get rid of my cold. It worked a couple of days later the sore throat was over and my fever was gone.
-1	I really don't know much . I try to get updates when i can and when i need it. It's not like i can go to the doctor every day .
-1	When I was diagnosed with a tumor weighing over 5 pounds and was crushing my lung and affected my breathing 
-1	My knowledge of healthcare is good and interesting as most of their findings can be linked to family history.
-1	When i had to help a friend get their insulin. Another time was when i did cpr on someones kid when they were drowning.
-1	I would have to say that I have been somewhat blessed with good health; I have only been to the hospital for childbirth and have only had occasional colds. The only experience that comes to mind is after the birth of my second child, I experienced a great deal of weight gain and I was close to my mid thirties. Unfortunately, I am still fighting this battle due to increasing age, menopause, muscle atrophy  bad diet habits and a host of other social factors. I have stabilized my weight a great deal by making major changes in my diet; which includes reducing sugar, caffeine and adding healthy oils.It looks like it is going to be a lifestyle change, but it is going well so far.
-1	Honestly, I don't think I have had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	I demonstrated knowledge when I had to learn about my asthma and what I can do to control this by taking my medicine it will help me
1	I do not really have experience in my life concerning health or medical issues. i often do rely on other or bank on others for their help
-1	Had pain in center of chest along with lost of appetite and throwing up & suspected a heart attack and it was
-1	my knowledge of medical issues relate direct to me. I know to eat healthy when I pregnant or I will have gestational diabetes again. I know to watch my sugar intake or I will have love handles again, etc.
-1	I got a lower back injury on the job & now i have a bad back. The doctors basically only care about the money as well as the lawyers. They don't check up on me any at all. I only go for therapy & thats it. 
-1	I am aware that the hat I am suppose to eat healthy, exercise , drink plenty of water, get routine check ups, Pap smear and mammograms 
-1	My mom had asitma we had to do alot when having an attack hold her head up administer her medicine sometimes take her to hospital 
-1	My health has not been good over the past couple of years like it was 10 or 20 years ago and that worries me to the fact that I must start to take care of myself. 
-1	I have had no expierence that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues yet but maybe in the future i will
-1	My mother was ill for years before she passed. My grandparents had health issues before they passed 
1	When my husband was dying, his gout flared up and I was able to explain to the nurse what was happening to him.  They were concerned with his heart, lungs, and kidneys and overlooked gout.  I had to explain that it was unrelated to any of those things.  Of course they knew what gout was but that didn't immediately come to mind when he was in excruciating pain.
-1	I have worked as a pharmacy technician for about 4 years in a retail setting and in a hospital. I had many opportunities to ask questions to nurses, doctors and pharmacists about different procedures and medications 
-1	A nearby death experience for when I got my big toe amputated from having staph infection and almost being near death.
-1	"in the last three years I have  had an appendix removed, 6"" of intestine and a gallbladder. Because of all these emergency surgeries I ask more questions than usual when it comes to my health"
-1	I guess just knowing better and not believing all the bullshit the doctors or these so called higher power people that try to gain the world. Yeshua always has the last word.
-1	Can't remember a specific time. Can't answer this question at all. Next question please. Sorry. ....
-1	I have demonstrated knowledge of health and medical issues dealing with pregnancy and my job as a certified nursing assistant. 
-1	I had an experience at my Gyno and I needed to educate her on my birth control regimine by understanding how much I take and how often
-1	Going to the emergency room and the nurse come in to draw my blood but pops the finger out of her glove which is very in sanitary 
-1	I get regular breast exams and mammograms when got irregular one I had to get further exams from other specialist
-1	Well, i was diagnosed of having asthma at a young age. But i feel like i haven't had a problem in years. Last time was probably middle school, so asthma really does go away with age
-1	I can't think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues because I'm a fairly healthy person.
-1	I really haven't had any experiences like that.  The only ones I can come up with is understanding when a medical or health issue was being explained to me.
-1	I suffer from anxiety. So I'm more in tuned with my body and my medical issues. I always think I'm having a heart attack when I'm not (in which my heart's been checked out and I'm fine).
-1	I have experienced a time when I was coughing and headaches and feeling nausea...the conclusion was that I had the flu.
-1	I have a number of issues around conceiving a baby. Having a 2 miscarriages/preterm labors, uterine fibroid and polyps I have become pretty knowledgeable about this issue
1	I started experiencing flashers and floaters in my left eye.  I researched it online and found out it is a sign of a detached retina.  I made an eye appointment and was told I had a detached retina.  I had eye surgery and successfully completed all follow up instructions. 
1	I was given eye muscle surgery 10 years ago. I had already researched all information necessary about general anesthesia, post-surgery medications to take at home and possible side effects so that I would be well-equipped if something came up and I would know what to ask the doctor.
1	I have relatively mild health issues & dio does the rest of my household so I haven't really come across this kind of situation
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when taking care of someone who had an allergic reaction to food 
-1	Years ago I performed private duty nursing in a group home facility. It was among the list of my duties to do patient accessments, administer medications, make/keep/report adverse reactions among the patients. I also provided in-home care for relatives and aided in the decision making regarding their medical/health issues.
-1	when I had my blood sugar taken, I asked the doctor to test for AC1 as well because in the past he has just given a basic blood sugar test which was borderline but I believed the AC1 would be a better barometer of my risk for diabetes. 
-1	Have never been told or been given this kind of info before..............I have no reference on anything like this
-1	a few years ago I broke my arm . the EMTS said it was a sprain. xrays proved that it was broken. a lot of things have been proven wrong by me over doctor's diagnosis in the doctor's office and I have ended up in the emergency room.
-1	I don't know as much as I should about possible health issues. I should really research how much of a risk I have for cancer and heart attacks
-1	Took care of wife diagnosed with bone cancer for first 6-months, followed by 6-months of hospice care for her.  Have son with sickle cell disease who's hospitalized for 1 week periods 4 - 6 times annually.  
-1	I know some things about health, and medicine issues but need to learn more because they have  some things I do not understand, and some things I do.
-1	In two mammograms, I was required to come back for further testing.  It was determined that I have dense breasts which often cause a false positive reading.  I now expect that to occur whenever I have a mammogram.  I do not get as tense anymore now that I know that my breasts are dense.
-1	Keeping myself well and exercising taking medication as directed you shouldn't have any problems maintaining anything
-1	Taking class in Middle school and High school for Health. The internet helps me learn things everyday 
-1	as far as I can remember- i went to the dentist for a regular check up only to find out that i had two cavities that i was unaware of , was stunned since i floss and clean my teeth like i clean my face- thoroughly
-1	I just took a biology final and there was a section on the test about the human body and i needed to label body parts and know the names of molecule.
1	I was in the hospital when I found out I was diabetic and before I was released I talked to someone about counting carbs to ensure I stayed within the healthy range. It did not take long to get the concept.
1	I have numerous family members with a variety of health problems. I go to the doctors with them and am able to understand the doctors and explain information to family in ways that are easy for them to  understand 
-1	had a loss of vision when I have really bad coughs and had no idea why. So I researched on google why that happens and saw the explanation why that happens
-1	I have IBS and my doctors wanted to put me on a medication that had bad side effects. My prior knowledge of this medication caused me to refuse the use of the medication.  The discussion with my doctor lead to the use of an alternative method.
-1	21 To no one has ever had been in a chance on e and thank you wanna leave the browskin out in a chance for the morning to see it on e mail to you wanna breakup of the Soviet us to see you in you in a chance to you in the morning you in you are you are yark doing 
-1	I have had an overactive thyroid every since I was 18 years old. I have been on the pill since them and will have to take a pill for the rest of my life.
-1	Well I read a lot of books and I do a lot of research on the internet. I also ask my doctor a.lot of questions
-1	Recto dunno tho dunno dunno turnip turnip think tho full tho full Rubio ergo  Rubio Rubio full syrup Rubio tho thump zero full full full. Tho high-up
-1	When my auntie died from cancer, I felt like the medicine she was taking made it worse for her. It's like the medicine helped killed her.
-1	I have had to assist in caring for several family members with different health issues. The range in meds to Dr . Appointments were all different.
-1	I really dont know. I have no reason to think about this . I am pretty healty I walk a lot.In my life if you use you wont loss it.
-1	I was in the hospital once for a week straight I was diagnosed with diverticulitis you miss a condition where your stomach intestines are Jagged and it catches food and I had swelling in my intestines and it won't allow me to pass my bowels
-1	Food people or the union we are are the end the end of age as quilt and he wthe people of he united States of the American w em are enjoying end o ag ND people are cool an fun the from ad dmedkdriekde djeirjd. Really Dr fmrkdfmrfi d efkd fjdek to do the trick f f the room and it takes a little bit ago and have the best gym and I underwear is a wonderful and have the the from starving I all that I all good good bank and have the from ad and it shines and have any good bank an an an MD in myo is good good good to the from ad I've and have
-1	I have seen people in my life deal with health issues my entire life. I'm now taking care of people that have major health issues. I have seen people pass away from having major health issues.
1	One day I was at work and a coworker had complained about having symptoms of excessive thirst, change in visions and feeling fatigued. I informed her that those were signs of type 2 diabetes and suggest she see her primary care doctor 
-1	I don't have much medical issues because I'm a pretty healthy person but I do have a lot of acne and some breakouts. 
-1	Friend's baby was choking on vomit, helped them through my CPR training that was required for my health studies major.
-1	My husband has now had 2 cardiac arrest in a 4 year period. Thank God today he is arrive due to medicines and doctors. I feel now I have much more knowledge about heart disease and steps needed for a healthy heart. 
-1	When I was first diagnosed with diabetes I was referred to a class by my doctor there I learned about the disease how to take care of myself how important losing weight is and maintaining a healthy weight can keep the disease controlled......at this time I do not take any medicine for diabetes its been controlled over two years by diet and exercise
-1	I had a bowel blockage ,unable to keep anything down without vomiting, I went to an E R the doctor did a CT scan and said I had small bowel blockage And told me to see my primary care physician on Monday,and sent me home without treating me, for the vomiting or the obstruction, this happened on a Saturday, I went home Sunday morning and went back that same night and was admitted.  
1	My mom had health issues through my life which gave me a lot of knowledge on health and medical issues. I did my research and studied up on the subject.
-1	My sister and mother had cancer and  I spent a significant  amount of time researching the type of  car they had and questions  there Dr on the best care
-1	I hat having to worry bout my health cuz its not good to be feeling down all the time i like to be well and energetic
-1	I haven't had major medical issues. Mostly what occurs is I have a cold that turns into an infection which requires antibiotics. My doctor explains why I might be experience symptoms and how the medicine will work. 
-1	I took a health science class my junior year in high school. My aunt is in the health field also so I learn a little from her
-1	My mother just had surgery. By the look of her scar, I knew she had an infection. I told the Dr but he didnt believe me. He discharged her and had to admit her back. 
-1	I've had a few health classes that taught me a little and of course personal experiences. Just looking around at everyone around me and looking at what they are going through and how they got out of it. Also my mom knows a ton about getting over colds.
-1	I have a lot of knowledge  about health and medical issues.I read a lot and watch a lot about health and medical issues. I also has books on it.
-1	When I was diagnised with an ectopic pregnancy that needed emergency surgery, I looked up and researched 
-1	I am a kinseology major and we have to know about health because we are constantly learning about the body and how it works and what makes it works better.
-1	Well  don't know that much about all these questions and answers,  did not know I was going to take care test,
-1	Just seeing and hearing about other people's Experiences I have learned so much about health and medical issues
-1	In a few sentences, I can elaborate and describe an experience in my own life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues. I took health classes in high school and I stay on Google to obtain all types of information. I also ask close friends and family members. 
-1	Seeing my dad experience health issues after he was diagnosed with diabetes. And me reading about signs and symptoms.
1	Every morning I used to throw up from my acid reflex. So i went into the doctor and they prescribed me a pill to help my acid reflex and ever since I listened to the doctor and took the pills my stomach feels a lot better.
-1	Since my experience is about my high blood pressure and being a border line diabetic all the knowledge of questions helped me to learn my condition much better 
-1	My mom had terminal cancer and I pretty much had to figure out that it was terminal. I did the research though and it took until she went though invasive chemo which was just prolonging the inevitable and which ultimately killed her, that I did the research and figured it out.
1	When I did well in my nutrition class and I got an A- which lead me to understand healthy eating more on my own.
-1	The ability to take medicines and monitor my body's progress and reactions to medicines.bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
-1	Whenever my nephew has a seizure and I have to make sure that he stays safe in the process. And if he does not come out of it on his own and I have to admisinter his medication 
1	I am a registered nurse. I'm very familiar with health and medical issues since I deal with them each day. Each day I explain in layman's terms complicated health or medical issues easily. 
-1	I'm not a professional or an expert I don't know that much or as much as I think I should no. I probably need to look more into it or get more info and be aware.
-1	i have some health conditions that are treatable like diabetes high colestrol which can be treatable  i take mediciations that are percribed by the doctor one of them is under control and the other one needs a little more attention.
-1	I have lyemphomic leukemia. I was dignosted 2 years ago. it is not to the stage where I have to have treatments. the doctor is keeping a very close eye. but I have learned more than I want to about the symtoms you may or may never have or get. but it makes me aware how fragile we are as we get older and you should read and check out lots of medical problems for your age group whether you ever have anything or not
-1	Loosing weight has demonstrated that my knowledge of medical issues that would decrease with weight loss helped motivate me
-1	I went to college to study exercise science. And we covered alot of material on health issues and ways to prevention. 
-1	High blood pressure and diabetes run in my family and I am very aware of what to look out for and how to help prevent it
-1	One time I went to the Doctor my blood pressure was so high. They keep me for observation to see if it would go down and it did. I was just over worked and stressed about losing my dad.
-1	I have been had surgery on my big toes, left boob to remove a ball of fat and on my Achilles. I have learned a little bit of something but it doesn't over qualify me.
-1	Nothing. There helpfully and they work hard to get you healthy . They help you get will and better. They know how to fix health things
-1	had a pain in my side. knew it was a kidney stone and drank  alot of water. then went to the doctor afterwards
-1	Torn hiker hen his. Hedge if we can do that for a few years back on my way home from work to be the first half of the day before I get a follow back on my way home. 
-1	At a young age, I had a a false positive for a mammogram.  What was a lump scar o my turned out to be a cyst. 
-1	I have no medical history.. in the future I pray to have non either. I wish to never have medical history 
-1	When my daughter was 5 Mo old she was diagnosed with sickle cell anemia, and she would have sickle cell crisis that would cause pain in her arms legs and stomach and I learned that whenever the pain started to treat it before it gets bad otherwise she would end up being hospitalized, she was hospitalized at least 3 times a year and finally in 2011 she was given a wrong diagnosis and passed away
1	I experienced heart pallpitations, arm tremors, sweating and a sensation that I was about to faint. I self-diagnosed that I was either experiencing a stroke or heart-related event, immediately took several aspirin with water, sat down and practiced deep breathing while I waited for emergency assistance (911). I was diagnosed after tests as having an Ischemic Stroke and may have saved my own life and/or avoided physically delibitating side effects with the steps that I took.
-1	I think an experience that demonstrates my understanding is my ability to take this survey even though it is all new to me.
-1	Having to make decisions about surgery on my eyes after a doctor told me I was at risk for a retinal detachment. 
-1	I have not had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical or health issues. I occasionally help my parents or family members understand some medical issues there are. 
-1	When I was younger. I got a very bad sinus infection, I had a very bad h headache, fever, and sinus pressure.they ran all kind of test to figure out what was the problem.. Years later my niece was experiencing the same symptoms, they ran test, car scans and everything else they could think of.  I kept telling them about our family history with sinus problems, they finally listened. And the problem was solved.
-1	Pooling cook travel appreciation is much deeper than your liking for someone. words are dense when trying to show love sometimes physical attraction has a lot of peo
-1	"Simply understanding the difference between HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol. This happened several years ago during my routine annual. Until then, I only knew my ""total"" cholesterol level. Since then, I've been successful at lowering my LDL."
-1	Well, my child has epilepsy and I had to read up on it and when it happened I had to lay her on her side make her comfy and let it take its course
-1	Don't worry about a thing because every little thing is gonna be alright . don't mess with me man. Man amongst boys. Things are good. 
-1	Noticing that my urine was 100% clear was a clear I doctor that my kidneys were not removing toxins. This was a warning that I communicated to my doctor and immediate he ran tests on me and realized that I was diabetic and my kidneys were comprpmozed
1	When I went in to have a scheduled cesarean with my twins I was thoroughly informed of the procedures before and after surgery.
-1	I once went to the ER and they did an EKG and because of m experience as a ekg tech I was able to deduce from the ekg strip that I had an abnormal heart rhythm
-1	I read on what might be wrong and look for ways i can improve my own health on my own. Like doing basic out and keeping a journal on my health 
-1	?... I Don't know I Don't have no knowledge for health or medical issues. i have no experience in my I Just Know a heart attack is a heart attack it sometines runs in blood high doses of drugs or diabetes by eating certsin foods. Colds are highley contagious usually  get sick so obvious theres a 90% chance I will  so I Don't know or understasd percentages and not willing to undertand. Excersing and eating helps the body the heary and all of inmune system. Soo... Thats all I know. 
-1	There isn't any but I'm typing in here so I can go forward in this survey.  I guess all my diabetic study may qualify like this 
-1	A family member I know was diagnosed with high blood pressure and nothing they were doing was able to bring it down. I was able to tell them what foods to eat in order to bring it down because I had studied about it earlier.
-1	I have family members that have had many medical stuff and had to have many things done and many medicines to have
-1	I had a severe asthma attack which I was suffacating from the inside.  In ICU for two weeks just to stablize my breathing. Found out a lot more about asthma during that time.
-1	I was once expose to someone who wanted to take overdose medication and I know the impact of taking overdose medication. It can be death or an increase in illness . I explain to the person the dangers of their action and they seem to listen to me
-1	I've had arthroscopic knee surgery, needle biopsy for a mass found during a mammogram, and surgery to remove one ovary, my uterus, and my cervix. Multiple family members have had cancer.  Know lots of people with health issues.
-1	I have not had the time or even had any kind of thoughts that i was ever in that bad of a position but i have always made sure i would never be put in that situation ever
-1	I had to go to the doctor with my mother when she was diagnosed, asked questions about her prognosis and treatment options 
-1	I went to the doctor about my foot pain.  When she told me that I have arthritis, she made me feel welcome by explaining my issue.
-1	my neighbors child was chocking on a lollipop where i had tho perform cpr on him but his mother couldn't because she had an attachment to her child she could of hurt him rather than save him is always best for a stranger to preform cpr on your love one
-1	I don't know please let's get to the next point I don't understand the question cause I am confused ccvfhbdtbcarbcdfhbxy fgdjgy fjggawuvy gsdkb hxrsijjlvhzr fzfjj
1	" Was able to clearly describe an ulnar nerve subluxation to a orthopedic surgeon who was trying to figure out what an injury was that caused my arm to be unable to straighten at my elbow, immense pain and the feeling that my ulnar moved from the center of my body, over my shoulder, out of where it sits in its ""funny bone"" position over my elbow and back again into place. "
-1	I have only had to deal with medical issues when it came to my children not too.many when it comes to myseld
-1	The only thing I can do is say that the fact that the people who are not in the same way that the people who are not in the same way that the people who are not in their way that it would make any difference. 
-1	Being diagnosed with diabetes. Mine was never out of control but prior to being officially diagnosed I was pre diabetic and I had some of the symptoms including obesity and slightly elevated fasting glucose readings which indicated it. 
-1	While coaching a student's arm began to swell rapidly. As  I observed this I asked him if something happened on his way to school. He informed me he had been stung by a bee. I immediately told him he had to go to go to the hospital  immediately. That he was beginning to have a reaction to a bee sting.
-1	I'm sorry but you didn't mean to put you down to do it that way too much but I didn't mean you something else lol lol I just thought I said I don't want it lol 
-1	I recently did a specimen for colon cancer screening to which I had deposited a small amount of fecal matter on a stick that was placed back in a bio hazardous bottle dated and wrapped with a absorbent tissue pack so that it's content could be placed in a sealed plastic bag which had to be sent in a cardboard envelop through the mail... 
-1	I had back pain and tried to figure out what was causing it. I had to use my common sense and basic knowledge of health to inquire that it was probably minor issue.
-1	2 years ago I found out from my doctor that I had kidney stones due to lack of water consumption. I still need to do better each day.
-1	through the course of years learned alot terns and experiences in just speaking with different doctors and people there isn't too many medical issues, the only issues is the cost
-1	I was diagnosed with osteoarthritis in my right knee.  I am currently under my rheumatologists and paim specialists care.
-1	My husband always thinks he is having a heart attack, and I have to constantly explain to him what the symptoms are 
-1	Three years ago I had a total hip replacement, during that time I learned a lot about different infections that can be effective prior to the surgery, and must be cleared up. I learned of a medical condition of the mouth called periodontal disease which is an infection of the gums that causes a bad case of plaque build up on the teeth. I had to go through extensive dental visits before my actual surgery to prevent infection in the hip.
-1	I had a fatty liver. It might be an ongoing thing. I spoke to my doctor regularly on this issue. This has been a topic I had to learn.
-1	When I had to take care of my grandmother after she was treated for cancer, I had to take care of her when she got home from the hospital
-1	I always do research online and ask doctors questions if I have concerns or are curious about something.
-1	I dont have an experiences where I was able to demonstrate knowledge of my health or medical issues. 
-1	since i'm on dialysis i know what type of foods to eat and how much fluids i ca drink in a day. i know what to have for snacks and what exercises to do.
-1	I have raised many of children in my life and I have had to deal with a lot of colds,fevers,and all that goes with it. But the hardest was when my youngest developed asthma.
-1	I do my own breast exams every month. I check my temperature and I know my body very well. If I feel like something is wrong I do to the doctor 
-1	I have no experience or full knowledge of medical issues. Have not been to see a doctor or gone to the hospital for a while.
-1	I had 3 strokes and In every case it different. I learmed a lot about the differentstrokes and its effect
1	I felt like that was easy enough and that I can know my health and medical issues if i am exposed to them.  I feel like this survey is helping my understanding of all of the health and medically related issues in my life at the moment.
-1	High blood pressure I can't really say because I try to stay healthly by walking and eating better so I don't have any problems
-1	You will face different experiences in your life were you will have to demonstrate your knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I have eczema. Before seeing a dermatologist I just thought I has bad skin. I didn't know I had a severe allergic reaction to insect bites. My doctor has given me talks and pamphlets about the difference in a regular bite reaction and a full blown break out of hives.
-1	 I only have personal experience as far as things in my life to demonstrate my knowledge. The questions in this survey have caused me stress as I don't understand a lot of what I'm reading. 
1	I feel  that I'm adequately able to process the information my doctor provides and have asked many valuable questions regarding my health. I've been instrumental in catching errors that have arisen
-1	When I became a donor. I donated my left kidney back in 1998,I asked many questions the doctor gave me pamphlets, books and live testimony from pawed donors.
1	I have high blood pressure. I have to know what the numbers mean when I take my blood pressure. I once started swelling all over and knew I needed to go to the hospital because my blood pressure was high. When I got the hospital it was 180/120 and I had to take medicine right away to lower my blood pressure. Since then I have really had to watch and understand my condition. 
1	Having to go through the whole disability process to get my benefits I often reviewed my medical records as well as researched their findings. It allowed me to talk with attorney and explain things to judge at hearing.
-1	I really don't know because I haven't been through something like that but I just really don't know and like I said I never been through nothing like that and don't won't to
-1	Because i experience health problems or know people that have health problems. Flaws elements etc. Information informative
1	Really not sure how to respond to this question. I guess because sometimes my understanding comes after I've done further research or after I've basically Google something to get a better understanding of it.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I have a cold or the flu I always take home remedies and after a few days I get well.
1	While not a doctor and not a real emergency, often people get nose bleeds and everyone tilts their head back. I tell them you should tilt your head forward so that the blood doesn't go back into your throat and clot.
-1	I never had one so I don't really know what to say lol really I don't know what to say nothing comes to mind
-1	I was going through my second pregnancy and was experiencing some pain and discomfort. After my first pregnancy I realized that I was going through Braxton hicks contractions 
-1	i was a care giver for my mom as i become familiar with prescriptions i use a medical dictionary to help me learn names of drugs and side affects it can create to also make the same double amount of drugs are correct or can cause serious side effects
-1	I had to lose a lot of weight because I used to be extremely obese. I learned how to read labels and what type of workouts to do in order to lose weight. I was able to reach my goal weight in a year and a half. 
-1	I graduated with my Doctorate of Physical Therapy and passed my licensure exam and have to read MRIs to patients 
-1	I can't think of any experience I had concerning health or medical issues. I don't think I had those types  of issues  so far.
-1	None I don't know of any have not experience have never had issue don't know don't know don't know don't k ow
-1	Well at this time I do not have any medical issues that have demonstrated knowledge well yes I do have a couple of relatives that were diagnosed with cancer so I know from their experience
-1	I KNEW THE BLOOD FLOW WAS GOOD IN MY LEGS AND THE DOCTORS WHICH WERE SPECIALIST GAVE ME CREDIT FOR KNOWING THAT
-1	Medical issues is a track of john lennon. he live in the sky, but never kill him idea. You can kill the man, bur never kill the idea.
-1	I would say me going to the hospital more anf more helped demonstrate my expertise on health issues in life
1	Throughout high school I have always been adept at medical related things. I have a genuine interest in the subject so I have always done well. I went to state for HOSA every year that I chose to compete. I also made high marks in my CNA certification class. I am constantly surrounded by the health issues of others which sparks my curiosity so that just leads me to go home and learn even more.
-1	I was with a family member who was hospitalized and the nurse dropped off some forms to be signed. I understood better what the medical terms meant regarding pain medication so I was able to explain what it meant.
-1	I stopped myself from taking certain medications because they made me have allergic reactions.  I Monitor my medications to ensure im not having bad reactions to them
-1	I remember when my sister got a gash in her head and I remembered on tv the man said to apply pressure until he ambulance arrived
-1	This girl went into a seizure, and I knew to make sure that she didn't either swallow her own tongue or bite it off.
-1	When I was younger I diagnosed myself with having Hyperthyroidism. I went to my Gynecologist with a list of Endocrinologists and asked him which did he think was better. I was later treated and have been on medication every since. I've also diagnosed other illnesses for myself and others.
-1	Having a baby and the baby being at high risk of being premature due to stress . I Did not know what to do or how to calm my stress to not have my daughter premature.
-1	I've went to college for medical assistant training and my families mental and physical health histories
-1	I was hospitalized and had to learn how to take medication. I also had to learn how to take my blood pressure.
-1	I was preparing for open heart surgery I was able to inform the doctor that I wanted a certain type of valve. I had research and followed this valve for 10 years previously to know exactly what I wanted.
-1	I got the flu and I know what I should've dont to get rid off it. I just drank oranger jjuice, and my flue went away. It was that simple. No need to take a trip to the doctors office.
-1	An experience in my life that helped me better understand health issues was when my mom was admitted into the hospital when I was 9... it was a hard time for me and I had to learn a lot real fast 
-1	when i keep getting a cold like every summer for about five years when i finally requested to get a scan and learn that i had  
-1	When I had contacted certain medical ailments, I l conducted research using the world wide web in order to effectively treat said ailment 
-1	I know that my health is very good and it's almost better then all my friends.Another thing is that all I do is drink water.
-1	not sure i have had an experience like that maybe when i am discussing working out or nutitrtion with regards to bodybuilding or similar
1	I have osteoporosis.  My doctor went over with me the different types of medicines and how most of them harden the larger bones, but soften the smaller bones such as the jaw bone.  They suggested a drug that renews the bone versus hardening them.
-1	When I took an on line medical billing course and there were end of lesson tests to check knowledge of the subject matter 
-1	Making sure I'm eating right working out right and keeping a good eye on my health as I go on about my day 
-1	I have PCOS. I researched the symptoms and talked to my doctor about it. She agreed that I had PCOS and we worked together to identify some lifestyle changes that might help reverse the condition or alleviate symptoms
-1	After attending a medical check up, the doctor and I discussed how I could gain weight. We also talked about the effects of drinking protein powder on my kidneys.
-1	ive never been sick or diagnosed with anything but i have taken test that came out positive and was given so many pills that it drove me crazy
-1	I use to sit with a lady  .the best thing to do is use common sense.when something appears to be wrong then call for help when it's nothing out of the ordinary ordinary then wait and see what happens 
-1	I have not had extensive training in medical issues. Therefore, my knowledge of health or medical is limited at best.
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with lupus wasn't sure what the life expect expectancy span was so it was a little scary but we learned about it quickly and everything was okay
-1	I had a stroke in 2007 that left no outward effects.  Then in 2008, I was diagnosed with Lupus.  I have ongoing medical issues that I have to maintain and could not do so without knowledge of medical issues.
-1	math skills, trying to figure out if i can ad, divide subtract number or think i can. I think my numbers are screwed to be honest
-1	I was 19 and had a pulmonary embolism. Afterwards that made me become more aware of my health and medical issues. I also keep up with my family history.
-1	I was very sick...I felt tired all the time and stayed hungry. I sweated very ofteneen when it was cold.I stayed thirsty all the time and could not satisfy my thrist no matter how hard I tried..I knew what it all meant...I was either diabetic or boarder line diabetic.
-1	I not sure of one instance but when I fill a certain way I know if i have the flu or a common cold. I usually know what medicine I need to take.
-1	I have hardly ever have had to use my knowledge of health or medical insures to help in any experiences in my life
-1	I went to a endocrinologist who diagnosed me with hypoglycemia. This doctor prescribed byetta. I informed the doctor that byetta is for patients with high blood sugar and he said that is correct. I reminded him that hypoglycemia is low blood sugar. I asked him would I be correct to say by taking this drug would lower my  blood sugar and at that time he said you are correct. He then told me he had forgot that I suffer with low blood sugar.
-1	For the last few years I've been going through a lot with my body and health issues but slowly trying to eat healthy and work out
-1	My mother is a nurse so she tries to keep me informed on what is going on. Also my dad works in a hospital so he is very knowledgeable. 
-1	A year and a half ago, I was called back to retake a mammagram due to an abnormal reading.  Upon returning to retake the mammogram, the test still showed something.  I had to have it retaken for a third time and because it showed some breast density, I had to have a mammogram done to rule out cancer.  the mammogram did just that.
-1	i have no experience or knowledge of health or medical issues, i don't go to the hospital that much and rarely see a doctor.
-1	I was having  hemorroid issues throughout my life and was able to treat  with otc medicine until later in life they became chronic. I then realized I had to have an operation to get rid of the pain.
-1	I don't really know bout health or medical issues because I don't know certain things that deal with it.
-1	I had a begin cyst when I was younger and learned a lot from that, I have also taken medical anthropology and biology courses, I'm just horrible at the math parts 
-1	Being diagnosed with diabetes at the age of 23 I had to learn at a young age to manage numbers for my best life long result
-1	i have high blood presure and i know what my numbers should be and i know what my readings are i also know that if they go higher than my normal i should let my doctor know and find out what he thinks i should do
1	I am a nursing student so I have to understand lots of medications and what the side effects of those medications are in order to teach patients.
1	I honestly can't think of any. The only time I  ever talk about health or medical issues is during online debates or when a family member asks for my help with some online research. My knowledge is pretty limited. I don't know a lot, but I do know how to find the information when needed. 
-1	I usually learned this in my health class about how to calculate stuff and also this waa basic math if you know your stuff so yeah. also l like math and math is fun.
-1	I took out my own stitches on my forehead because I didn't want to go to the hospital to get them removed, plus pay to have out of pocket too. Since I previously went to college, graduating in the health field I had the knowledge to remove my own stitches with ease and no difficulties.  
1	A family member being diagnosed with diabetes and a family history of health problems has made me more aware of medical issues 
-1	Just that people doesn't take the time to get a checkup to make sure they healthy enough. They are taking risk of their health and this issue of people of having serious health problems. 
-1	My spouse recently have gone through some serious medical issue with an 75 percent chance of survival. We did additional research to see what else we could do to increase his percent. 
1	I found blood in my stool and by tracking my symptoms and checking online, I was able to narrow down what could be causing the blood prior to going to the doctor for a check up.
-1	I just had a mammogram I had to go back because  he couldn' see my left breast on the xray all is good. They was doing  it from my wheelchair
-1	Yes!  I visited my Cardiologist a couple years back; he added a new medication in addition to the other 3 prescribed to me by another physician.  I asked him if it would be okay to take all 4 together. He told me i would be fine. No side effects. Atfer taking the new one he prescribed to me on the second day; i had a severe reaction. So; i stopped taking it. Sure enough i started feeling better. When i told him he just lighly brushed the matter aside. Doctors don't always know what's best. 
-1	My mother was diagnosed with depression and needed ECT and medication and monitoring by a psych Dr. I helped her with all of it and addressed the Dr's for her. 
-1	I had ovarian cancer and when i finished chemo i found out I had diabetes type 2.  I also have sleep apnea and suffer from depression.
-1	I really not good with numbers so I Google or call the doctor to ask what it means. The internet helps me to understand things better 
-1	Me eating to much sugar and me literally having a head ache because of all the sugar also me not having my periods just proves that I do have pcos and my hairy back and face shows that I do to so yeah
-1	Fear....I am not the healthiest person on earth. i did not realize that I needed a calculator to take this survey
-1	I am not good at month so my numbers are completely off. Some onewould new to explain it to me very carefully 
-1	I can't think of a situation where I demonstrates knowledge for a situation pertaining to a health issue. 
-1	Being a diabetic has been a life lessons on how to use insulin and how to check  blood sugar levels. Adjusting for blood sugar taking in effect diet and insulin to fine the range you are shooting for. You have to understand how to operate the meter, test strips and the solution for accruates. I had to take classes dealing with my diet what not to eat looking for sugar on labels. 
-1	I was prescribed 1,800mg of a medication 4 times a day. I actually took 600mg 3 times a day. Which was one dose of what was prescribed.
-1	When visiting my sick mother in law at the hospital, I was able to relay that information so all could understand. I had command of what we were told by the staff..
-1	I been admitted to the hospital because I had a diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure so I had to understand my situation well so I can change my life style to have more healthier life 
-1	I haven't had many experiences in my life to demonstrate my knowledge, unless you count having a lady have a seizure in front of me in line. I told the gentlemen to turn her on her side instead of keeping her on her back.
-1	I haven't ever has any questions like these. These are actual medical questions ; something you'd probably find in medic school 
-1	I work in the health care field. I feel like I have basic knowledge and I can always ask a doctor if I have a question.
-1	I can think of none in  my life. There has been no time where as l have had issues to demonstate issues;
-1	I once had to administer CPR to an individual who was having an epileptic seizure. In this particular instance my medical knowledge  came in handy.
-1	I use my knowledge of cold and allergy to self assessment conditions in my household . I also can perform basic first aide and CPR 
-1	One day I was jumping too much without warming up or stretching so it put a lot of pressure on my knees which caused them to hurt. I couldn't run or jump without any pain. I decided to spend a month and 3 weeks icing my knees, stretching my lower body and doing lower bodyweight workouts like squats and lunges. No running or jumping occurred during this time period. It actually worked and I was able to run and jump pain free again. This taught me the importance of stretching and warming up.
-1	I have had broken tendes on my great to my doctor was very nice and gental to me made sure I understood what was going on with my toe gave me meds for pain could not a better doctor
-1	My friends blood pressure was high and I checked her temperature and seen if she was ok and then I called the doctor 
-1	My doctor visits I think taught me a lot. If you would like to know more about my visits the visit my website. I would tell you what it was but I lied about having a website so I could reach the word minimum. Idk if I reached it but I'm done typing now. Sike I lied I'm still here. Ok now I have probably reached it so bye.
-1	I try to remind others to be aware of the medications they take and ask their doctor many questions.
-1	I have a lot of detailed talks with my doctors and try to have myself as informed as I can before studying medicine myself. I am in no way a real doctor nor to I qualify but I have always found it interesting. 
-1	In the past I've been able to determine a the signs of seizure in a family member and I knew the steps to take to best help them.
1	I have knee issues. This caused me to become less active. I continued to eat the way I always have, poorly. I began to gain weight which caused my knees to hurt even more. I began to research and incorporate exercises that were less stressful on my knees. The slow process of losing weight has begun.
-1	When I go to the doctor I always ask him about my health, blood pressure, weight. I ask him the necessary questions
-1	Just watching others go through health issues taught me more about health. Also, I can see what they are going wrong and right
-1	I was participation in a online health group with regualar visits to the doctors to check cholesterol and other blood tests
-1	Some times it's hard for me to tell if I hve a kidney infection or a rinary tract infection.When I get one of these infections it is easy for me to tell which is whic before I make a trip to the doctor's office. 
-1	Some things are not a hundred percent accurate so try to take more then one test, also even though things are uncommon still get it checked out because it's still a percentage out there and you can be a statistic
1	i don't have much knowledge however when i was in the hospital as a child, i did realize when the x-ray techs took the x-rays differently and wasn't afraid to tell them.
-1	i did not have those experience yet and i pray that i don't with my medical issue am very health i take care of my self
-1	I can't really say, I do have some medical issues that I try and read up on. I'll read blog posts, forums, health magazines and ask others about their personal experiences.
-1	I have been diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome.  Therefore, I've researched the symptoms and possible remedies besides surgery to alleviate the pain and numbness that comes as a result of this issue.
-1	I think being pregnant for the 3rd time showed my experience I wasn't as afraid and knew what to expect 
-1	Husband was diagnosed with possible leukemia but after many questions was later determined high white blood cell and ulcers
-1	While at dinner, my best friend started to choke and I had to perform the Heimlich maneuver. I did it appropriately by following the steps
1	When my friend had injured himself playing basketball, I was able to adequately hell him patch up with my knowledge.
-1	I see a doctor about my health condition.  I ask doctors questions to prevent from having problems.  I make sure I get the right treatment.
-1	I read a lot of medical journals and i visit a lot of mefical sites on the computer watch a lot of medical shows
-1	When I noticed that something was wrong with my side, so I purchased an at home UTI test and realized that I had a severe UTI infection that traveled to my kidneys.
-1	My mother began feeling ill and was experiencing shortness of breath, chest pain, and radiating pain in her left arm. I knew she needed to go to the hospital to get checked out because something was going on with her heart. The doctors did a heart catherization and sure enough she needed stents in her heart.
-1	When I had a bad sinus infection, my doctor agreed with me when I stated that I was drinking alkaline water and consuming probiotics to help decrease my chances of getting another infection.
1	Just do not have any experience that qualifies under that guidline.  Not a medical type person, not at all.  do not have an idea because I am not interested in medicing
-1	Well I got into a car crash. And I was sent to see a doctor for my back because of the impact of the car. It made my back mess up a bit. So I was going to these classes for my backs and now it's fine 
1	When my little brother has a seizure. I know exactly what to do while he is having one and if it lasts longer than 4 minutes to call 911
-1	Nothing in particular. Just things i learn in school,doctors, or family and friends. i don't consider myself an expert in health or medicial issues
-1	Had a friend call that she need to go to hospital.  So I went to her home finding her sweating and larthergic. I called 911 and told them she was diabetic.  After, checking her blood sugar it was over 200.  She was taking by ambulance and the next day she had her big toe amputated.
1	I can't think of anything that would describe an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	The doctor told me that my rest results showed a possible infection. I was to take some medicine with lots of water every day and come back in two weeks to get rested. I took all the medicine and returned to the doctor for follow up testing.
1	I have a premed education, attained MPH and worked as an IRB Administrator. I also have research experience as well.
-1	When I was diagnosed with a tumor it caused my balance to be off and when I exercise I would get head aches I new something was wrong
1	A couple of months ago I was informed that I needed a root canal and crown. I asked the dentist if just removing the tooth was possible. After being informed yes, I chose that option. I knew that the chances of complications from tooth extractions are low.
-1	EVERYTHING LOOKS GOOD TO HEAR THAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A FEW YEARS TO LIVE LONGER THAN WHAT YOU ARE EXPECTED 
-1	I haven't really had any I try to stay as healthy and in good shape as I can and exercise often so I will be healthy and well
-1	I have learned a few things about health in health class at school and from going to doctor appointments with my mom..she would also tell me if I feel anything is wrong then I should go to the doctors 
-1	Aside from consulting my physician, I often check the webmed.com to know about many illness and I talk to friend who have knowledge in the issue too.
-1	I have a little knowledge of medical issues. But what I  don't know I have no problem in asking questions until  I get an answer that I can understand.  I will read up on it or call someone who can help me with the problem. 
-1	When I gotten beaten by a spider I looked up the side effects of it and it said I could have cancer if I didn't check it out so I did and it was true and I got it cut open and stitched back up 
-1	I do not have an intelligent answer to this question. I am not a medical doctor and can not answer this question.
-1	Really haven't had one because I somewhat try to be positive and think of a greater outcome then a negative one 
-1	I have no situations in my life that demonstrated a health issue. I have been healthy all of my life. I thank the Lord for blessing me with good health.
-1	Life is really serious so people need to take care of there body.. Because life is too short now a days 
-1	I remember having a pain in my tube near my lower left stomach area that would hurt if I moved to the left or while riding in a car. I went to the emergency ward at 3:AM and after examination I was told I had walking pneumonia. I checked in about 1 hour later. 
-1	I just recently found a lump in my breast and went to the doctor I was scared it was going to be cancer but it turned out to be a cyst
-1	Well I learned a lot once I was diagnosed with hodgkins lymphoma. Prior to that i did not know much about good health
-1	I do not have an experience in my life that demostrates my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I just take what the doctor's diagnoses.
-1	I make sure I keep all my doctor appointment I take all my medicine, I try and exercise, and not allow stress get the best of me. When I feel overwhelmed I stop and breathe
-1	I can not think of anything. The only knowledge I have is to check my symptoms on WebMD. I do not have any other medical knowledge.
-1	When I was younger I was in the Army stationed at an Army Medical Center. I got a chance to visit first-hand many medical personnel who explain to me a lot of processes and procedures that I did not know about.
1	I have worked with an obstetrician when it came to infertility. I read several articles from academic journal to learn about options before I went to see the health care professional to get the best information on my options.
-1	I have never had this happen , i dont really know a lot about my health. I always have to ask the doctor a lot of questions
1	I worked at a medical research facility when I was younger and I became interested in knowing how to care for myself and love ones
-1	I know that many medications we take as a whole is going to have some kind of side effects. Thats why it's best for body to heal naturally.
-1	I never had a health issue before in my life. My body as been in good health throughout my life so I dont know how to answer that question 
-1	I do not know for sure.  I knew when I was pregnant that I could get a medical issue, but it would not last.  The medical issue would go away after the pregnancy.
-1	My son was born with an abnormal heart beat. The physicians wouldn't let us leave the hospital after he was born. We had to go to Duke Children's Hospital to get more help for him. His condition was worse than we thought. I had to listen to the doctors explanation of his condition to explain it to my family.
-1	My weight loss experiences defined my knowledge of different weight loss drugs and my issues with losing weight
-1	In my life  an experience  that demonstrates  my intelligence  of my heath or medical  issue. I was given the  wrong medication. I acknowledge  what medication  was  for.i know that  l did not have  that  issue. 
-1	In June 14 2014 I injured my back at work. I was a correction officer. A injury that after 4 weeks of rehabilitation I thought I would be healthy enough to return to work.
-1	I know when you don't take of yourself your tend to break down and your health get worst sometime you will have to take drug to keep your body going 
-1	no major health issue  during pregnancy had a problem with gaining weight  doctors explained the importance of me eating many small meals and food supplements  
-1	When I received a call from the doctor saying that my mom was being admitted to hospice, I immediately understood that it meant she had 6 months or less to live since hospice care is meant to make a patient comfortable in the last stages of life. I was a medical claims processor and claims auditor/trainer so I was very aware of what that meant because of my claims experience.
-1	I generally read and listen to what is being said in the medical community whenever I get the chance.  
-1	I had high blood pressure during pregnancy and understood the issues that could arise from that. I understood that I had to take medication to prevent possible issues , although I didn't want to. 
-1	I remember along time ago, when my husband told me the symptoms he was seeing in his mother's behavior and he didn't know what to do. I had just read an article on alzheimer's. I told him to take his mother to the doctor. It turned out sadly that she did have an onset of the disease.
-1	when my father had a stroke i was aware of what wad happening and i was able to diagnose him and get him help. 
-1	I kept getting ear infections and I told the doctor that my previous doctor found out that my sinuses drained in my right ear. He didn't believe me at first.
1	I do not have any health or medical issues.  But I have seen it effect family members having heart attacks, diabetes, and kidney disease
-1	I was stomach issues.  Never was to concerned.  Figured ulcer, gas or bad indigestion.  One day had blood in my stool. That's when i got concerned.
1	I am aware that you have to exercise and eat right to be health. I know that eating lots of fried foods can causechigh cholesterol
1	When a coworker admits that they are worried that they have appendicitis, I ask them which side of their abdomen hurts. If they say their left side, I reassure them that their appendix is on the right. 
-1	Last summer at the end of junior college year and through summer months I started having symptoms that would say that I was pregnant.. but I kept thinking no I can't be.. but then again all the right symptoms were there and I was right I was pregnant... now I have a bundle of joy
1	About 8 years ago my then 10 year old daughter was released from children's hospital after an asthma attack. She was given a new steroid medication and she was crying for no apparent reason. I got on the computer and researched the drug and learned that the drug had a myriad of side effects that were troubling. I then called her pediatric pulmonologist who was appalled that the hospital had prescribed that drug and he told me to stop right away and to bring my daughter in to see him
-1	I had a mammogram last year and received an abnormal response.  Very scary.  Had another one done and it was normal.  
-1	I am farely smart in science, so I am able to comprehend more than the normal person. I also keep up to date on the medical world
-1	going to the doctor and having test done on whta my health is. After i go to the doctor I get mailed my physical exam and in that I can what they tested and to see if anything is wrong or if everything is ok
-1	Just knowing what issues I have and taking steps to get the right kind of help needed no matter the stigma. 
-1	You never know, I dont know everybody is difference you take it as it comes. Just what I read and the doctor tell me
-1	I have never really had any health or medical issues. I have very lucky to not have heath issues and be very healthy.
-1	I can't think of a time when I was knowledgeable of my medical issues until after I had read up on it. When I became ill after being bit by a tick I was completely clueless until reading up on it for years.
-1	I can't think of an experience which shows my medical knowledge, as I have very little of it. I've never been in a strenuous situation where my knowledge was useful.
-1	I dont have an experience in my life where it demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues at thus point.
-1	Recognizing my symptoms, looking them up, and self-diagnosing.  Doctors agreeing with my assessment.
-1	During my third trimester of my pregnancy the doctors discovered that I had STDs. They described to me what it was, how I could've gotten rid of it, how long it would've took, and how to prevent it in the future
1	When I was diagnosed with hypertension, I was familiar with the disease as my mother has it. My mother's hypertension is controlled.
-1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy at a young age. that got me to thinking about different things in my life that I could not do.
-1	That was extremely difficult. I wasn't anticipating that type of information. I was thinking on the lines of reading over documents provided by the doctor. I never thought about statistics and how they relate.
-1	I honestly have not had any kind of health or medical issues throughout my entire life but I have knowledge of it 
-1	have been taking my parents to doctors for years until my mom passed away have been to all kinds of doctors and have ssen so many conditions
-1	I can not describe an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues at this particular time.
-1	My 3 year old daughter had a stomach virus. I knew she needed to stay hydrated. I also knew she needed to rest not eat anything heavy. I monitored her temperature for two days while her symptoms were present.
-1	having diabetes is a challegne, so i try to listen to my doctor. i also do alot of research to learn more about my situaition
-1	I had symptoms that I looked up on medmd and was able to determine what my illness was and seek medical treatment 
1	I've never had any opportunity to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues . I've been lucky but I do know more than most people because I have a physician as a brother 
-1	Have diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol.  Also have a hormone problem. So this has caused a lot of knowledge in health and medical information. 
-1	I know all my medications and their dosages and know what they have been prescribed for. I have a good idea of when I began taking the medication. I keep a journal of any new or mysterious symptoms that may occur and bring them to my doctor's office at the nex appointment.
-1	None. I haven't had any. I haven't been in any situation like that. No experience. I haven't had to demonstrate any knowledge.
-1	I have Crohn 's disease so i have had alot of hospital stays and medical procedures performed on my body it has been a learning experience 
-1	I was told that I have high cholesterol and needed to take meds. After reading about natural remedies coupled with exercise, I was able to lower numbers plus decrease meds.
-1	Dinner nah hash browns and I love the way you do that You is an infection that has been the same as since you are came who is a friend of and that was your wife who was is had ot
-1	I have been blessed enough in my life that I have never had to give anyone in my family CPR, see someone faint, or be in a dire medical emergency.
1	I was diagnosed with high blood pressure and prescribed medicine. I was able to  maintain low blood pressure through diet and exercise. I no longer need to take medicine.
-1	When I had an MRI done years ago to see if there was a tumor on my brain because of numerous headaches but was told brain is fine spine on the other hand well I was diagnosed at that time with cervical spondyliosis which means my spine is fused doctors want to operate hell no Ill die with a fused spine and what other abnormalities that I have
-1	Understanding the changes my brother had to make after circulatory and heart issues. Surgery of having a pacemaker and then having to replace for a new one.
-1	I was in the Army for 6 years I'm a certified combat lifesaver and I got out I became cpr-certified and first aid certified
-1	in my life i have been around the healthcare field alot more often than not. there have been plenty of situations that tested my knowledge and ability.
-1	Used to work in medicine and help people because it's good to help people  it's great to help I help all the time
1	Giving Birth To My Daughter And Having To Have A Ceserean Section Because My Cervix Would Nk longer Dilate After 5 CM and With Every Contraction My Child's Heart Fate Would Drop Due To Stress
-1	I was a peer advocate in college so I learned about sexually transmitted diseases at the time which is how I know more 
-1	I have asthma. Therefore I am very careful if I am around smoke or any other hazderous materials. That is the only medical issue I have.
1	I went to the clinic with my baby cousin for her shots. The doctor gave the baby the shots but did not say the baby would get a fever. I then asked him if the  baby would get a  fever and he smiled and said he forgot to tell us about that.
1	I don't know if there is a specific instance that I could give,but my daughter has had quite a few medical procedures in her life.  I am able to explain, in detail, everything that any new doctor needs to know about her situation.
-1	I have not had an experience in my life yet that required me to use any medical knowledge at this point in my life.
-1	I am a medical technologist, so I work with statistics and have taken classes in anatomy, clinical chemistry, hematology etc. I work in a clinical laboratory.
-1	Having asthma and COPD is no fun, I used to go to the hospital every few days sure to not being able to breathe!  I learned first hand that not being able to breathe is no joke! 
-1	I have taken health classes in the past and i used to major in exercise science so i have seen alot of this information before 
-1	When I was told about the process of a c-section while giving birth and how to stay calm and what the further steps I needed to do at that very moment in time
-1	My last surgery I was told to contact the doctor if my temperature rose above 105,But I knew that if you increase the oxygen to your lungs by walking or using a breathing apparatus it would decrease your temperature 
1	I had been experiencing abnormal fatigue for a long time and got a blood test that showed I had severe iron deficiency. I was directed to start taking iron supplements daily. A family member who knew about the situation told me that I should start feeling better within a couple of days. I explained that the pills didn't work to give me instant energy, but that my body required time (weeks or months) to restore my depleted iron stores, ramp up red blood cell production, and get physiologically readjusted before I could expect to feel better.
-1	On some it was a guess im not really good at something and others i am. But its good to know somethings about health and mental stuff can help you in the long run.
-1	I had an issue with a anti depressant regimen a few years ago; I pleaded with the physician to changed my medication, because I knew the regimen I was taking was not working anymore.  After persistence on my part, it turned out that medicine was on a list of questionable treatments and multiple lawsuits, which described my exact issue with medication surfaced.  To further prove I had been right, my insurer even removed the medication from their formulary and was placed on another regimen, which drastically improved my situation.
-1	I have a average of normal when It comes to experience in my life to the knowledge of health medical and or medical issues. If possible, I will search on the net to see what issues  that I might have.
1	Someone in my class passed out and I was CPR trained. They were not breathing so I did chest compressions while they were lying on a hard service. Then I used an AED machine and that fixed the problem.
-1	My std testing regularly because I am high risk for contracting illnesses.I have trouble fighting off infections
1	When I was diagnosed with high blood pressure by my doctor.   I had to change my diet and also take medication
-1	Every time I visit a health care professional it tests my knowledge because I am very knowledgeable because I read a Lot and pay attention to everything around me in that field it's a passion of mine.
-1	I contracted the flu because there was a shortage of vaccine that year. I went to the doctor and he prescribed Tamiflu. He asked why I did not get a shot and I replied that I was not considered high risk. He advised that I should classify myself as such because when I get a cough, it takes so long for me to get rid of it. So I still get my flu shot each year and I do not get the flu.
-1	I've no ideal of what you people talking about. But I'm just gonna say anything to get my money. And that's all I've to tell you people 
1	I was able to help someone identify the symptoms of someone who was possibly diabetic before they were diagnosed. 
-1	My issues are sometimes reading the putting the medicine on the wrong alse sometimes, but I get along really good with the patient.
-1	Health medical issue can effect your life style. IF you have cancer, psa, heart attack, stroke can cause death. To understand your health you need to ask the doctor how can you fight the disease to eat health food and execise in your life style.
-1	I know how to clean and apply a bandage to a small scrape or cut. And the rest I leave it to the professionals who are train in medical matters.
-1	All the symptoms I was having I would google to try to see what it was before I went to the doctors. 
-1	I knew I had gall bladder issues because I already google my symptoms prior to speaking with a health care professional 
-1	Only time that I can think of was when I was in college and I was taking an anatomy course and I had to take it and Ina me test and I did really well got an A on it so that's the only thing I can think of that would have demonstrated my knowledge to help their medical conditions
-1	I had  an health issue experience five years ago. I started feeling a sharp pain in my epigasrtric region, and was eventually diagnose with elevated blood pressure.
-1	I really don't know a lot about health or medical issues, but i do understand my health issue and what i need to do to stay healthly.
1	I have had a history of anxiety and depression for almost 5 years now. When I was starting with current counselor for treatment, I had mentioned that I was, at the time, a Psychology major. Being in the field of psychology and having had to take classes centering around what I was feeling really helped to put certain things into perspective. For example, when my counselor asked if I knew about a certain type of treatment that she wanted me to try, more often than not I would say yes because I had to study it at school. Knowing about things like that helped me to understand what she would discuss with me and helped her to put things into a frame of perspective for me.
-1	When I was diagnosed as being insulin resistance. I didn't know too much about it. Only that I had to watch my sugar intake and take prescription meds. After careful studies and through trial and error, I was able to control my blood sugar levels through diet and exercise (along with taking a cinnamon supplement one to two times a day).
-1	"This whole survey hurt my brain I can't take anymore. Algebra ahh Here's some random crap off the internet Medicine (British English Listeni/mdsn/; American English Listeni/mdsn/) is the science and practice of the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease.[1][2] The word ""medicine"" is derived from Latin medicus, meaning ""a physician"".[3][4] Medicine encompasses a variety of health care practices evolved to maintain and restore health by the prevention and treatment of illness. Contemporary medicine applies biomedical sciences, biomedical research, genetics, and medical technology to diagnose, treat, and prevent injury and disease, typically through pharmaceuticals or surgery, but also through therapies as diverse as psychotherapy, external splints and traction, medical devices, biologics, and ionizing radiation, amongst others.[5] Medicine has existed for thousands of years, during most of which it was an art (an area of skill and knowledge) frequently having connections to the religious and philosophical beliefs of local culture. For example, a medicine man would apply herbs and say prayers for healing, or an ancient philosopher and physician would apply bloodletting according to the theories of humorism. In recent centuries, since the advent of modern science, most medicine has become a combination of art and science (both basic and applied, under the umbrella of medical science). While stitching technique for sutures is an art learned through practice, the knowledge of what happens at the cellular and molecular level in the tissues being stitched arises through science. Prescientific forms of medicine are now known as traditional medicine and folk medicine. They remain commonly used with or instead of scientific medicine and are thus called alternative medicine. For example, evidence on the effectiveness of acupuncture is ""variable and inconsistent"" for any condition,[6] but is generally safe when done by an appropriately trained practitioner.[7] In contrast, treatments outside the bounds of safety and efficacy are termed quackery."
-1	None.  I can't think of any.  I'm not really a health junkie.   I just live each day to the fullest, hoping there is nothing wrong with my body.
-1	I work in a hospital with doctors and I have attended plenty of doctor appointments with my parents as well
1	I often accompany my dad to the doctor when he goes.  I will often look over his test results as often he doesn't understand what they mean
-1	I have had several mammograms so I am familiar with the procedure and the approximate length of time it takes to get results. I am also aware of my family history with regard to certain conditions. I am learning more about health/medical issues now that I have gotten older
-1	When I had to get my fibriods removed. I wa able to explain to other women why it was necessary for me to also have a partial  hysterectomy 
-1	I have had heart disease for 19 years. I had indegestion really bad one time and someone called an ambulance. I explained to the entire that I knew all my signs and symptoms of cardiac failure and I was sure that I wasn't experiencing an of them
-1	i went to school for medical assistant so i know a little something about things so i can relate to some of the terms that the doctors use 
-1	An experience that I can recall is when I was telling a friend about her medical issues. It was sort of the same medical issues I had. This was a time I felt as if I had lots of medical knowledge.
-1	My 19 year old daughter began to experience fluid leakage from her left breast. I asked her how many times it had happened and when.  I had her check for an odor and coloration. I asked her about changes to her breast in size, texture and sensitivity. Finally, I asked if she were pregnant.  I told her it was likely due to hormonal changes and could be related to the meds she was taking. I took her to the doctor.  Her asked all of the same questions I had asked.  Performed a breast exam, then researched her medicine history.  He then told us that one of the meds she was taking was known to cause this type of hormonal changes. 
-1	I don't know if I ever had one in that case I would say I don't know and I 'am not at all knowledge of health or medical.
-1	None that i can think of my health i kinda pretty good that ther is no major problems that i am aware of rite this minute
-1	When a relative was going through medical issues, and was told to take a certain medication with a high amount of side-effects, so I told her to ask the doctor for an alternative medication instead.
-1	i have done nurse assistance jobs and also went to six weeks of nursing classes to prepare myself for nursing homes and doctors offices. Trained in cpr also. physically i am ready.
1	I know the visible signs for strokes. FAST is the acronym that can help determine if someone is having a stroke. I was able to use this knowledge to recognize the signs and was able to get help right away for my mother.
-1	I'm not a doctor. I go to the doctor to get treated for medical conditions. The doctors are the ones that are practicing medicine. All I do is tell them how I feel to best help them be able to know what's wrong with me.
-1	I understand if you are overweight, you have a higher risks for obtaining health issues.  Also, family history plays an important in determining higher risks of disease.
1	I'm fairly good at noticing changes in my body and what it could mean medically. I also read some medical articles where I learn and consume symptoms that could indicate an issue.
-1	I noticed that I was having frequent headaches and feeling very jittery so I went to the doctor to get my blood pressure checked, they found I had high blood pressure. From then on I have been taking the medicine and watching my sodium intake.
-1	I'm very well read on auto-immune conditions, as I am dealing with a condition myself.  I was having muscle weakness and I studied and found out what might be wrong.
-1	I can't think of one that can be described in a few sentences or words. Medical health and issues are simple yet sometimes complicated.
1	when my wife was diagnosed with microcalcification in her left breast, i took it upon my self to become fully knowledgeable in the condition, treatments and long term prognosis.
-1	There was a time in my life where I had a sharp pain in my lower back that didn't feel like normal pain. I knew with the symptoms of cramping in my lower abdomen and problems with urination that I could possibly have kidney stones. I requested that my doctor do a urine test.
-1	When my children were young and I didn't want to call the pediatricain for every little thing, I used my knowledge of basic health information to make decisons to positively impact their medical conditions. 
-1	I try to look for new medications when I have an occurring issue like something I never tried before that I feel will work then I will look into if they take my insurance and what side effects might happen
-1	I have thyroid issues hyperthyroidism that treated with radiation has bought me too hypothyroidism which I control with levothyroxine daily for past 20 plus years
-1	I was in the doctors office with my condition and I was able to understand what the doctor was talking about and was able to communicate with him regarding the meds I have taken in the past as well as things I was doing to easy my situation prior to coming in.
-1	In the past my anxiety meds were nolonger effective. The physician I was seeing wanted to up my dose for the third time. However I had to explain to him I was becoming immune to the drug and needed to start on another one. 
-1	I'm not sure I know of any demonstration of health or medical issues other than a friend of mines had issues with high blood pressure she went to her doctor and after he gave her a thorough check up he prescribe medication to reduce her blood pressure
1	I have no idea how to answer this question.  I was sick and able to read the instructions on a medicine bottle and not od.  I lowered my average blood pressure by changing my diet.
-1	It was very informative even if I got none of the questions asked right I was informed while reading whiched helped me learned.
-1	I try to be knowledgeable about what is going on with my body and being able to understand what the doctor is telling me.
-1	Tore ligament in my shoulder and needed decompression of my rotor cups and to fix shoulder inpingmen of my right shoulder surgery. After surgery need to go to therapy to help with being able too, use shoulder.
-1	I really don't have an experience I can think of so I can't really answer this question ok ok okso I can't really answer this question 
-1	I have little to no experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues but this survey is making me feel dumb for not understanding this medial and health knowledge. 
-1	Thanks everyone for your birthday and we can attend I will have the same to time so I will have to do the same thing that he has been spoiling my daughter to get a chance thanks I will be there at 5 and I am going today at the park or library at 3 times today up and
-1	I had a pap that came back abnormal stating that I may have hpv but I didn't really have it. I took a couple more tests that proved it
-1	an experience in my life that demonstratedknowledge of health or medical issuea is when i had acid reflux and i couldn't breath it was the worst thing i ever had
-1	when the doctor first diagnosed me with Sarcoid. I began to study and research about this disease. Now I know of symptoms and issues that can result from the disease and from the medications used to treat this monstrous disease.
-1	Being diagnosed with hypertension. Made a change in my overall healthcare. Trying  to quit smoking cigarettes, eating healthier , less salt, exercising, 
1	When I had to take care of my mom as she got sick. She had a strong form of cancer and I had to learn the treatments for it and how to handle her declining health.
-1	I been to the doctor plenty of times and know a lot about health. I ask doctors a lot of questions and they tell them what I need.
-1	I really can't recall an experience being that i haven't really had any medical issues that resulted me into seeing a doctor
-1	I have very little knowledge of medical issues, and can not pedict any care that is needed, so I must seek professional medical advice.
-1	I was born with a brain disease called Arteriorvenous Malformation. I had a stroke when I was 19 and a begin having seizures in 2010
-1	I don't really have experience other than researching stuff on my on on the Internet. That is the extent of my medical knowledge.
-1	i had an anyurism in 2009 i didnt know if i was going to be okay because i was out of it for about 1 week but i finally came to, i had to take therapy classes but i came out okay.
-1	I have cluster headackes that is feel very capable about making choice for my medical are very good about all choice of my doctors are all 
1	I am knowledgeable of reading labels after I became sick with cancer in 2013. I decided to learn the labels for myself to reduce sugar and other unhealthy food items.
-1	I ws experiencing pain and the drs couldn't find the cause I did research and spoke openly with my dr about all the issues I was having
-1	I once had a asthma attack that i had to be put on a breathing machine.So i changed the way i exercise and diet to make me Healthy.
-1	Having previous miscarriages and explaining my history to a new OB-GYN demonstrated knowledge of my health and medical issues.
-1	When I was in the air Force, we had to perform self aid buddy care and take CPR classes. We had to learn what to do in certain medical situations and different medical terminology.
-1	My mother frequently had mammograms performed and during that time I researched breast cancer on my own.
1	Told that my sister had food poisoning, probably ate some mayonnaise. Everyone else had eaten the same food. She had nause, vomiting bile and severe abdominal pain, coming under not keep any thing down...RL quadrant pain. I told the dr. She had gallstones and had her transferred to another hospital where it was correctly Diagnosed and she had surgery.
-1	I'm an athletic trainer that deals with orthopedic injuries all time. But there are times when I see athletes with fevers, skin rashes, stomach bugs, etc. from there I have to figure out the best possible treatment for them or to refer them to.
-1	Some years ago I attended a university to study medical assisting.  I finish all courses of study, but never passed my state exam.
-1	I don't remember having to go through anything like this before. So I wouldn't know how to answer this question. 
1	I took biology and health education classes in school. I feel these classes and courses gave me a good understanding of the basic health and medical issues a person can encounter while in high school.
-1	I can remember any issues that I can comment on .  I not had any experiences where this has happwned
-1	had to read up on a cold that i had and the medicince that the doctor had to give me and i found out that the medicince was the best for the cold so i went to another doctor and he gave me better pills
-1	An experience in my life taht demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was whem my sister came down with the flu but we had no medicines at home and it was extremely late, so no pharmicies or stores were open. So what I did was evaluated and assessed her symproms. I noticed she had stuffy noise, chest coughing and a mild fever . So first I made her some honey tea with lemon to alleviate the stuffy nose and couh then I allowed her to lay down so i could rub a semi cold damp rag on her forehead to get rid of the fever. I also turn the fan down low so it doesn't irritate her symptonms some more
1	My knowledge of knee issues have given plenty of people enough information to make a decision regarding getting arthroscopic surgery.
-1	Pretty decent considering my time in the medical field. I feel knowledgeable enough to have a good understanding.
-1	When I found out I was a diabetic. I found out I have high cholesterol. I found out I have high blood pressure. 
-1	when i had pnuemonia i learned they gave me prescription for tamiflu. I said if i have pnuemonia why am i being given this. They said when the flu gets really bad it turns into pneumonia. I just learned that
1	I cannot say that I am well versed on health issues. I have children and I often rely on the internet and thorough research when it comes to health issues before seeking a doctor. It has always been a great help to me.
1	My mother has dementia.  I have researched online the different drugs that can be prescribed to slow this process.  I talk to her doctor about changing her prescription when I see that there is no noticeable improvement in her condition.
-1	I watched over my grandmother as she was getting older. I realized that she was feeling really warm one day and I thought she might have a fever. After taking her temperature we realized that she did have a fever.
-1	I figured out that the extreme pain and difficulty with mobility that I was having was due to disc problems that I was having with my back. This was before I consulted with my doctor.
-1	I had two surgeries last year and had to research my condition so I'd be able to understand it better. 
-1	I've never had an experience to learn a lot on health so anytime the opportunity came I was silent. I'm very quiet and keep things to myself.
-1	I've never had an experience where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. This isn't my field of work so I try not to give false information though I know a bit. Every person ia different so who am I as an untrained doctor to give advice 
-1	I displayed symptoms of unbalanced anbulation and neuropathy in my feet not relieved by pain medicine and all test results were normal. I figured the cause to be 1 of 2 diagnosis and was correct after all evaluations were completed
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.. I don't know...
-1	I thought this wasn't a good barametor on that. I thought it was very unnecessary and not really relevant to the survey's topic. 
-1	I recently found out that I have anemia. It made me take better care of myself by getting the proper nutrients needed daily as well as working out. 
-1	Mamogram which scard me because I had a lump it came out to be only a cyst. That was the scariest moment of my life.
-1	I can't think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I actually have no knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	As stated in the letter of intent, the NHMFL offers the capability to measure actinide materials under unique conditions. Conventional transport measurements can be performed with lock-in amplifiers or resistance bridges using the extreme environments available at the NHMFL. In addition, very sensitive skin depth measurements can also be used where a sample is placed in the inductor coil of a resonant tunnel diode oscillator circuit. Frequency changes to the circuit allow one to learn about the penetration depth of superconductors, susceptibility of magnetic materials or perform quantum oscillation studies on metals. This technique has the advantage of being contactless to avoid damaging fragile samples m. 
-1	My grandmother suffered and succumbed to renal failure, which was highblood related.  Highbllod pressure is a def. Silent killer. They need better treatments for kidney patients. Solutions need to begin at an early age for each person born.
1	I have hypothyroidism, so there's been a learning curve.  There's a lot I didn't think of before, so I've had to play catch up.  Since then, I've had to learn to be specific with questions and require a response.  I know where my individual numbers should be and not just the healthy range
-1	When I was prescribed anti-anxiety medication and I realized that it was having an adverse affect that was giving me negative side effects and I was able to realize this and be able to switch and get the correct medication.
-1	When I was pregnant I had to get a checkup and the nurse thought I had HIV but it was wrong because it was showing two different blood type for me and my child
-1	well that time i had oval cancer and wasn't sure if i was gonna live or die well I went to the doctor did everything they told me they remove the cancer cells and everything came back ok
-1	unfortunately, I do not have much experiences that I can think of immediately that that can demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	Efficient sleep is important to me to be able to feel healthy. I strive to get 8-hours of rest normally. Also important to me is a well-balanced diet. I often engage in the intake of required vitamins, minerals, and other vital nutrients overall. 
-1	When I was diagnosed with avascular necrosis which is secondary to lupus; I understood that the condition was caused by long term use of prednisone, a corticosteroid. Eventually I would need hip replacement to ease the pain caused by this condition. Continued use would cause for damage in other joints which it has. Unfortunately, this treatment is necessary to help keep the lupus stable.
-1	Last year I'd finally gotten insured and started visiting doctors for four different preventive screening exams. I'd get health information after each exam and take them home with me for my own references.
-1	None. Never had health problems. I always took care of my health. I only caught colds and maybe a few allergies but nothing major or serious or life threatening.
-1	having a colonoscopy finding out you have  polys and you  have to have surgery to remove them or it can turn into cancer.
-1	No particular experience comes to mind at the moment.  In general, I feel like I have a good understanding of health or medical issues.  Things are usually made clear enough that I can easily understand and if I need further information I ask someone with that knowledge or do some research.
-1	I haven't really allowed anything to go on that long before I do something to prevent certain things such as high blood pressure and diabetes.
-1	When I as told I was pregnant I already knew I was pregnant because I took a test to confirm before I went to the doctors office 
-1	When I took my voted class for medical field . I learned things in the health department . It taught me what to expect and what not to expect & to be aware . 
-1	When I was diagnosed with breast cancer.  I was able to comprehend the healthcare process that I needed to undergo to free me from the cancer diagnosis.
-1	I have never had this type of experience. I am not well versed in health issues. I just know what you shouldn't do.
-1	I had my pressure checked after a minor fender bender, and it was elevated. I knew it was a result of the accident, because my pressure is usually normal.
-1	There is no experience because I am not a doctor I understand when the doctor explain to me that is all
1	I had a sore throat for more than a week. I took the regular over the counter drugs and they did not work so I went to the doctor suspecting it was strep. After the test was done, I was right. I had strep and received a prescription.
-1	I am really not medically knowledgeable so I do not have an experience to provide. I can give a cold as an experience just take cold medicine which I do not take
-1	I had to take a health and wellness course i  order to qualify for a job. I could also test out of the course if I received a B or higher. I chose to test out and received an A.
-1	my quarterly wellness visit relative to my knowledge and awareness of reducing and controlling my 1AC LEVEL.
-1	There are things what you think what you need things things can get better then last rgiibgs I want to think about happy things
1	"My spouse & I had a 'practice dog', the eldest of our 4 pooches, at 15 years old, who developed diabetes, seizures, bilateral cataracts leading to blindness in left eye, Cushing's disease, abdominal tumor & lots of attitude as ""The Queen"", I guess that's all. Who else but me as the ""Other Lady of the House"" according to ""The Queen"", performing duties of checking the dear dog's ears for weekly blood sugar checks, administering insulin twice daily, monitoring seizure activity, daily food intake & vet visits. Well, spouse did pay for it all financially, so it balanced (smile). This is just one example of many from also being the eldest of 10 children.  "
-1	I had a brain aneurysm and an AVM in my front left lomb the blood vessels were mangled from birth.  This malformation is what saved my life when I had the aneurysm because the blood couldn't gust out 
-1	not sure I want to divulge my personal experiences on this forum. Because I'm relatively healthy I haven't had many medical issues.
-1	I don't know, this question I can't answer because I really do t know. I don't know what to say. Air have no answer!
-1	I experience in your life that deminsted your knowledge of health issue because I had medical health issues in my life 
-1	A day before thanksgiving in 2015 I went into cardiac arrest and discovered that I had thyroids disease
-1	Well, I was out of town visiting a friend and by me living in the mountains, the shift in the altitude affected me pretty bad; I was in bed one night, and when I went to get up, I rocked right over from dizziness. I just knew it was my sinuses because of the switch in altitude, but my friend was worried and took me to the ER. They did a test on my heart and told me that was normal. I told the ER doctor that I was almost certain that it was my sinuses; the ER prescribed something for me, which I took, but it didn't help. I remained light headed a few more days before I went home, but I did buy some pills for sinuses they morning I was headed back home; sure enough, I headaches and dizziness subsided; by the time I got home, I was complete headache and dizzy free.
-1	It started when I took a trip to my doctor for a regular schedule check up he told me that they had found something abnormal an wanted to keep a eye on it. So he kept me over for observation 
-1	quality quick everything even rating report update one post all see data display follow find good graphic general journal job key known line zone  case
-1	I have had 2 c-sections the first was not scheduled and the doctors and nurses that were there were very open to my questions and let me know every step what was going on
1	My mom underwent back surgery because of her slipped disc. For awhile, the disc sat on her nerves and would lead to numbness in her left leg.
-1	I'm not sure if I have any and I'm not sure how to answer this question in many words. I do apologize I do not know.
-1	I love my life and my family my kids and grandkids..we love to cook together and eat together our health is pretty good my oldest daughter has asthma but its under control
1	One time a child I was looking after fell into a pool. I had to perform cpr and save his life. It was very scary, but luckily I knew CPR
-1	i really have no experience in the medical field.  but i do have knowledge from my fiance. She educates me on alot of things
-1	Going to the doctor and understanding my diagnosis was a time that my knowledge of medical and health issues were demonstrated 
1	I was talking to my friends about pregnancy and complications. I knew the names of certain pregnancy related terms because I read my mom's midwifery books.
-1	I had a lump on my breast I examine myself to make sure wasn't hard it was very soft so I knew it wasn't cancer but I went to the doctor anyway just to make sure it wasn't cancer they told me I just had a pocket of fluid
-1	I had an abnormal pap smear and had to have a biopsy done on my cervix to check for cancerous cells. I knew exactly what had to be done. When a biopsy is performed a microscopic piece of the tissue of the suspected area is taken and tested.
-1	In 2008 I was certified as a Nursing Assistant. After taking the courses, I was confident that I was able to identify and demonstrate knowledge of certain health and medical issues.
-1	I have not had an experience in which I had to demonstrate that I had knowledge of any health or medical issues. 
1	I demonstrate knowledge each time I see a doctor by providing the doctor with all the information I can about my condition, asking questions, and doing my own research
-1	I started college when I was 21 and I went for medical assisting. I have always wanted to be a nurse. I decided to try medical assisting to see if I could handle it and to see if I wanted to try nursing. Nursing was not for me and I found that out at an early age. I really liked being a medical assisting and I learned a lot about how the body works and what part each organ play. I know medical  issues and what causes them and the treatment. I love being in the medical field.
-1	A client recently informed me that her daughter didn't seem herself. The daughter recently began receiving chemotherapy and was nothing eating. Loss of appetite seemed like a typical side effect. The next day she said the daughter's mouth seemed swollen. I immediately assumed she was having a reaction & advised her to get to the ER. Turns out the daughter had an infection & was sceptic. 
-1	I dont even understand the questions so I am not exactly sure what you want from this answer and not sure how to answer the questions
-1	I'm very confident on my responses, however i don't know everything, some of this response maybe would be wrong
1	Once I was having intercourse with my partner when there was some abnormal bleeding coming from my vagina. I was not due for menstruation so I knew that there must have been something going on. I called the doctor the next day to make an appointment to see if there was any tearing or any other abnormalities. 
-1	There is no experience in my life that demostrated knowledge of health or medical issues at all or now
-1	not tsure at this time....cannot think of an instance i have no idea as of now unsure at the moment always know your #'s
-1	when i had gall bladder problems i figured it out where the pain was located of what it was. i was in great pain
1	One of the main experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I took a health class in high school. I earned an A in the class, and still remember the materials to this day.
1	This survey demonstrartes a semi knowledge of medical terminology and understand of certain health risks and factors. 
-1	I have expirenced a lot of heart ach and pain when it comes to my health. Ive been in accidents and I am not afariad to makesure it doesnt happen agagin.
1	DIAGNOSED MANY YEARS AGO WITH HEPITITIS AFTER SEEING MANY DOCTORS AND SPECIALISTS AND TWO LIVER BIOPSIES I RECIEVED SEVEN DIFFERENT OPINIONS AND FINALLY RECOVERED WITHOUT ANY MORE MEDICAL ADVICE
-1	I had a urinary tract infection. I read up on what I could do before seeing my doctor. I drank a lot of water and cranberry juice (several liters) and the infection almost cleared by the time I saw my doctor, as per test result. 
-1	I have many health problems but I am always learning based on what I can find out. I often do not understand things because everyone suffers from different complications. It can be difficultto undderstand that thing are complex.
-1	I can't really think of such a time. I know some about health and medical issues but am not extremely knowledgeable when it comes to these things.
1	My mom was recently admitted to the hospital due to issues with her oxygen levels.  I knew that she had to use her CPAP regularly to get her oxygen under control.
-1	i cant think of any particular incident where my knowledge of medical issues really stood out and i remember it
-1	A friend was told they needed to wear a heart monitor for a few days. I told them it wanted to just monitor their heart activity while they went about their normal activities every day for a few days.
1	Past advanced first aid training, life saving certification by the American Red Cross, certified as a trainer for first aid, and twenty three years in government law enforcement.
1	Some one once told me they had sinus and they are taking medication for it. I corrected the person and said everyone have sinuses but if it gets inflamed or infected then you will have a sinusitis and then you'll have to take mediction to help clear it up
1	I went in for a physical and noted that the range of motion of my left hip was a bit restricted.  The doctor ordered an x-ray and determined that I had bone on bone contact in my hip and recommended that I have it replaced.  Having gone through my mother's two hip replacements, I knew that a replacement would be of benefit and agreed to proceed.  I had also done some research on newer procedures for hip replacement and knew what to expect.
1	I have to tell people about my lupus and my pulmonary hypertension all the time.  They both can be hard for people to understand.
1	I don't have much experience with health/medical knowledge because it scares me to read about such things.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or a medical is having high blood pressure. Having to keep up with the readings and taking medication on time.
1	I suffered a heart attack one year ago and spent 4 days in the hospital. I research on the internet often and listen to my doctor and ask questions.
-1	I'm not sure how to answer this question. I have asthma which is controlled by a prescription and I have not had to use my emergency inhaler in years.
-1	Haven't really had a time where I displayed any health information tactics considering the fact that I don't really fall into that professions category. But I guess with numbers and hours adding up i can calculate mg 
1	I recently had to have surgery for a blockage. I spoke with the surgeon to learn the risks and the benefits, and made ,y final decisson.
-1	 A  experience in  my life    that demonstrated  my  knowledge  of health  or medical issues  is the doctor   prescribing   me medicine   to take for  my high  blood pressure  and  other  issues .
-1	When I was sick I knew enough to go get medicine so that I would feel better . I know that when I need to see a doctor when I don't get well after a few days 
-1	If there was a reverse action that could have been taken when my doctor cut the umbilical chord from my child, I would have wanted to know. Once I got the invite, I watched and heard, and listened to the heart monitor to know I could not had cut it.  
-1	Two years ago I had triple bypass and had to leatn all the problems and outcome of it which was hard
1	Had to research side effects from medications over the weekend while my doctor was out of town. Found out there were contraindications the doctor neglected to tell me about.
-1	my father and mother had heart attacks and i spent a lot of time in the hospitals with each and i learned a lot about the process
-1	Looking at mental health, I was informed on how my son was feel when he was having depression. I was able to mentioned to the doctor on my similar experiences and medication, and what had worked for me to manage it for the most part.
1	I know there is something but recall of that experience eludes me at this time.  Life is filled with so many situations that I just take in stride either by solving the situation myself or finding the right support person to do it.
-1	I do not know nothing about health and I do not worry about it because we will not live foreverThat is all I can say right now
1	went to uc Berkeley for sports medicine and worked as an athletic trainer for 5 years.  have a pretty good base knowledge of anatomy and physiology
-1	I have no health problem so far but it did break my hip about a year ago but I'm doing fine right now
1	I studied human physiology in college for 4 years.  I worked as a CNA during my senior year of high school and freshman year of college.  I helped the youth hockey team athletic trainer wrap injuries and rehabilitate athletes. 
-1	yes theres a very good expeirence that i got to know as when my relative was admitted in hospital and they chargedhuge money .
1	Passing my high school red cross training class with top grades and getting my first aid and CPR certification.
1	I have a bachelors degree in nursing and have worked in a hospital for seven years. I also have a masters degree in nursing informatics. 
-1	I know a lot about health from school and family and the internet I know a lot about it and how to apply the information 
1	when I feel bad or sick, I will make an appointment with my doctor.  I will follow her advice on what to do and if it's serious  
1	When I was diagnosed with a very overactive thyroid (eventually diagnosed as Graves Disease) and thoroughly researched the condition and treatment options 
1	I was really flushed, and breating hard, went to the hospital and found out my blood presure was 210/155
1	Over the past few years, my boyfriend has been working in cardiovascular and oncology labs and so have learned a lot about health issues, how they affect people, and the science behind them.
1	I can't think of a particular example, but people (co-workers, friends, etc.) often come to me for advice. 
-1	Inboxd the same time. I will pray for you. . I know a few years ago, and I have a fever, and the lad the bible, but it was the last few days ago by a friend who is 
1	I once served on a jury in a malpractice suit where we had to learn a great deal about heart conditions and treatments. I have also taken CPR classes.
-1	I have no clue as to what the heck you want me to say! This is getting pretty ridiculous! I have no knowledge of anything !
-1	I have had depression issues for a while. Been in and out of doctors offices trying to get the correct medicines more times than I can count on three people hands...
-1	The time when my grandmother got really sick and she needed someone to go over her information about the illness.
1	I've had diabetes for 12 1/2 years now. Not limiting this to a certain experience, I am capable of giving correct dosages of insulin, treating rare episodes of low blood sugar, and recognizing symptoms.
-1	Quite a few years ago, a very close friend of mine had came in from work. He went straight to the bedroom and laid across the bed, when I went back to check on him it was as if someone had thrown water on him I knew to call 911.
1	when I had white bumps on my mouth and looked on webmd and put in all of my symptoms and followed what to do to get rid of them
-1	Someone passed out during a performance, advised to elevate their feet to get blood flow to their brain.
-1	"I'm really bad at math, first of all. But both my daughters (under 3) have a genetic condition called ""congenital adrenal hyperplasia"" so we have had a lot of times in the hospital - where we had to test our medical knowledge and confidence in the medical field "
-1	I am a long term severe chronic insomniac diagnosed as having Primary Insomnia I. I have so much knowledge of insomnia that I have written about it. I can educate others. People turn to me for advice about insomnia.
1	I generally treat myself via nutritionally supplements, diet, and exercise.  Recently I noticed that I was losing my balance in situations where I would not normally.  I increased my intake of B12 (via sublingual supplements), and engaged in balance-stimulating exercises.  Within a short period of time my balance improved.
-1	I really do not have any knowledge of something like this. I do not know.I have no experiences. I do not know.
-1	I do not have any experience that I am able to recall at this time. This is a silly question and I have nothing more to add
1	Never had any serious health issues and therefore don't have all the knowledge. I do believe I have some common sense and can listen and ask questions
1	I learned a lot working in the hospital administrative office.  Enough to talk to patients and fill out forms.
1	I was diagnosed as bipolar in 2012, but later found out that the symptoms were actually partial-complex seizures due to a bleed in my brain. Coming to terms with this and managing my symptoms required lots of medical knowledge.
1	I study my blood test because I have Graves Disease and did a lot of reading on the issue and how it affects so many organs. So, now, I really look intensely at my numbers to see what's really going on. Especially my Hormone levels and after taking my meds. If I don't know, I go to the internet med sites.
-1	My son was born with multiple congenital heart defects. I had to learn medical terminology and learn about drugs and side effects. I had to learn how to place his feeding tube, because he often pulled it out, and I'd have to put it back in. I had to learn how to use a stethoscope and learn to decipher different sounds inside the body. I had to learn how to flush a pic line and administer medication through it. The list goes on and on.
-1	Whenever I have to assist my grandmother with her medical papers, I have to have some knowledge to answer those questions accurately. 
-1	I am always finding new facts about my health. Whether by asking or finding it during my own research 
-1	A mammogram is used to screen women for breast cancer. False positives are tests that incorrectly show a positive result. 85% of positive mammograms are actually false positives.
-1	No one  no one is a little bit and the same to get to be there is it is a little bit and I love you know what
-1	I have not had any major health issues so far in my life but i still try to keep my knowledge of health problems in the fore front of life
-1	I have taken care of family members with life threatening diseases to their death and went to all doctor appts
-1	Whenever someone I know experiences a health issue, they usually ask me if I have had it and any suggestions on the treatment. I will always share my knowledge and try to help them any way I can. If I cannot answer their questions, then I will tell them to make a doctor's appointment and discuss it with him or her.
-1	I really do not know about a lot of medical issues. I only know about my own medical issues. It seems as if the doctors don't want to hear about my medical issues just what they want to see.
-1	When I talk with my friends I always demote my knowledge about health because I always give positive recommendations about my experience and this works for them
-1	The Community Health Educator acts as the bridge between the organization and the community on issues relating to public and individual health. He or she, in addition to presenting health issues and education to the public in a variety of ways, counsels and makes referrals in matters of individual health care, and also recruits and trains members of the community to act as resources for health information.
-1	Well, I have a few health issues.I prayed for God to take care of me and heal and touch me.I felt so good and I don't have to worry about my health problems to increase.God Decreased my Health problems and that's very good news.
1	I had a mild allergic reaction to a medicine and the nurse at the doctor's office said that I didn't on the phone. I went to the emergency room anyway and they treated it. I looked in the PDR and found out the percentage of people who have a reaction and called for an appointment. At the appointment, I talked to the doctor about the symptoms I had had and the incidence of allergic reactions.
-1	I didn't not have any experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I did watch my aunt give birth though and it changed my career of choice afterward. 
-1	time spent in the hospital along with the questions i have asked about my health over the last 50 years
-1	Experience is the key. I have had several false mammograms. I have dealt with health stuff all my life
-1	When I needed knee replacement surgery, I read up on the procedure and went to a class to find out more about it and what will happen afterwards.
-1	having to go through five Urologist I became more interested in learning about my medical condition.
-1	I read and feel good, we all have and expiration date, that you have to accept.  I know my parents lived to 75 , that is what I expect. 
1	I used to weigh 260 pounds. I've since lost 70 pounds. Therefore, I have the knowledge and the power to determine how much of what nutrients I need to better my health.
-1	I know how to spell and say medications names so that helped me when visiting with a provider and knowing my options and what certain parts of a drug name mean and usuage 
-1	I worked in an old folks home, and the woman was taking insulan, her blood suger was really low, and I remembered that a glass of orange juice will help steady her blood sugar
-1	I have gone through a lot of issues with my heart, I have had angioplasty, cardiac ablation, and I have a defibrillator. I demonstrated my knowledge when a friend went through some similiar issues, and I was able to offer her comfort through my knowledge.
-1	Id say... I go for medical checkups as often as I should.. for my blood tests. for my cancer.. every 6 months.. if I need to go see the dr.. for other things I go as soon as possible.. Ive had a knee replacement 1 ... 2 years ago and will have another in a few months due to arthritis from checkup from other knee replacement... So If I have any problems or health issues they are talked about and discussed whenever need be.
-1	 worked for a pharmacy for 22 years and learned a lot about drugs and interactions and what they can do for diseases
1	An experience I have had that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is when my child went to the doctor and was told he had an ear infection. I knew he was going to need antibiotics for a week to get rid of it
1	my life is an accumulation of my experiences, my spouses and my parents.  i learned from each of these.
1	I was diagnosed 13 years ago with a rare tumor on my andrenal gland that caused my uncontrolled high blood pressure. it was removed but i learned so much about medications, hospitals, doctors. i know a lot and continue to learn as my mom has health problems and i have to assist her now that she is in her 80s
-1	i use to be a long term care nurse before my children were born and had been in the medical world for more than 15 years, i have also taken care of elderly loved ones in the past few years.
1	I obtained a degree and license as a registered nurse and have worked in healthcare for over 20 years
1	My ability to explain my vondition to paramedics who are uneducated about it. They tend to not like seeing me, because they cannot fo much gor me.
-1	i found out that i hd breast cancer  and had to have radation treatments and it changed my whole outlook on life
-1	I had my right upper lobe of my lung removed. There was an 85 percent change it was cancer so of course did alot of research on what my odds were types of cancers and prognosisl. I was very lucky it was not cancer but infection that had literally caused a whole in my lung.
1	I was getting dizzy and I figured out it was due to my neq medicine. I looked up information about the medicine , and , sure enough, it was the medicine.
-1	Trying to understand the risks of surgery, being put under and the reasons for the surgery that is not life threatening. I needed plain English not medical terminology. 
1	Filling out this survey for the last twenty minutes, demonstrated that I have enough knowledge to answer questions about medical or health issues.
-1	I always tell the the doctor mostly everything I try to get better but things happenall the time and the trauma is serious
1	I Once Stung By A Yellow Jacket And Had Severe Allergic Reaction. I Promptly Took Soon Benedryl And Then Went To The Hospital Immediately.
-1	i just read a lot and I don't really care to learn anything as that is what a doctor is for to tell me what to do how to eat 
1	I honestly cannot think of any instance where I have demonstrated a knowledge of health or other medical issues.  
-1	My husband had pain after falling off a ladder. He was checked out by medics and they felt he was fine. The next day the pain was worse- I accepted no excuses from him, we went to the emergency room.  Two broken ribs.
1	I stepped off the porch into a little depression, my ankle rolled on that foot and I came down hard on the other rotating my ankle and heard a loud pop. No immediate pain until I tryed to stand and then when I tried to walk the foot flopped...I realized I had a broken ankle.
-1	i am a mrsa carrier  they had to amputate my second toe right foot to stop the spread od mrsa  i later got an open cut on the bottom of my right foot and knew from what the doctors had told me that this would lead to another mrsa outbreak  i later lost half my foot and than my lower leg below the knee  i understood all oof this due to my doctors due deligence in teaching me how to handle the desease
-1	I had bad chest pain.I ignored them until i could not bare to any more. I am glad i went and check on my health. I could have heart attack 
-1	When my wife went into coma for 13 days and I was the one reading everything I had to sign for her and her test results from X-rays and blood test
1	When my father was diagnosed with a brain tumor it was up to me to provide care for him and take him to the doctor. Because he was unable to understand what was going on, I had to ask questions and learn more about his diagnosis.
-1	I only have basic must know knowledge with medical stuff. Like what to do for a cold, how to treat flue n colds.everything I do know is a must E
-1	Not sure what your talking about to me. I have some knowledge do to my actions that i  have done in the past
-1	Dealing with my father's healthcare during his last 4 years of life. I was responsible for overseeing his nursing home care, hospital care, co-ordinating his medical care with all physicians and hospice. 
-1	I am an I ON nurse and I understand what the doctor or nurse is telling me about my health. If I don't understand cometh g I just ask if look it up
-1	One time  my a1C level was very high. I was supposed to be taking metformin twice a day; however the doc made a mistake and only gave me enough for one dose a day. I assumed that because i was only taking it once a day that my 1C was so high. Turns out i was right.
-1	don't ask me to do percentages or math in a survey, it's ridiculous.  When  a dr. tells your husband not to take his father to the er if he is having a brain seizure, only if he is have a stroke, and you think it's malpractice, then you know more than a dr.
-1	My doctor told me I have borederline diabetes and I need to watch waht I eat. Therefore, I'm conscious of what I eat and I make sure I drink plenty of water.
1	The truth I have no experiences of that type until now neither with my health nor with the family of near, the floor that I explain in detail each relation of that type
1	Many years ago I administered cpr to someone until emergency technicians arrived. The person had a heart attack and I was the only one around.
-1	I grew itchy spreads inbsome reas of my body and new it was because of my unhealthy and unbalanced diet
1	A nurse did not believe me when I called to get an appointment w/ doc because I knew I had bronchitis, based on my past history and asthma.  It had not yet been 10 days as requested to wait to make sure not just a cold; I was inisistent, but was refused an appointment.  I called back the next day insisting for an appointment or have doc call me--NADA.  At the end of 10 days, I called again, making it clear that if I was not able to be seen today, I would let doc know that I had been put off for 3 days.  I got in.  Now, the bronchitis is so bad, I had to go on steroids because the nurse refused to get me an appointment.  Doc said she told nurse to call me back and get me in the first day I called, but she didn't, nor did she get me in the next day when I called. . . . I was right:  I had bronchitis.  The nurse was fired!
1	My wife went thru cancer for 3 years. Triple negative which could have been detected years before had she gone in for testing but most women don't have signs or are unable to pay the high fees involved for good testing.
-1	i worked in a nursing home for awhile i also ask my doctor alot of question concerning my health and i also ask my friends questions as well
1	I recently suffered from anxiety/depression. I know about the drugs that are used to treat these problems. I was able to tell the doctors which drugs might work and which might not work.
1	When a family member asks me or when my wife and son get sick and need help it helps me to know tips that i read in books, blogs and websites
-1	An incident when at a family event, father passed out.  Had him laying flat on floor, took his pulse, he had one, had another person call 911 while I tended to him.  
-1	I had a foster daughter who at seventeen had a rash on her back that was painful. I took her to the doctor and told him I thought it was shingles and he said it was. He then asked me why I brought my kids it when most of the time I already knew what was wrong them. I told him it was because I wasn't allowed to write prescriptions.
-1	i hate doing all that math so i guessed at a few if you cannot tell i have no time for math i hate math and never will ever in my days like to do math
-1	i knew how to control my asthma symptoms before i was told how to by my doctor.avoiding my trigger and internet research helped me without having to rely on him
1	I had neurological pain symptoms in my feet. I had to argue with my doctor for two years that it was not athlete foot and that since his treatment of me had failed for two years maybe he should refer me to a neurologist. He refused to even consider it. When I finally got to a neurologist she said I was right and the GP should have paid attention to my research. 
1	My father had several serious health issues (heart disease, cancer), and I attended doctors' appointments with him.  I developed a good understanding of cardiac health (his, at least) through this experience.  I was diagnosed with an asymptomatic auto-immune disease several years ago, one that may affect many different organs.  I have been thoroughly screened through this process, and developed and demonstrated a good understanding of health as a result.
1	I am an surgical technologist and have had 25 years of experience working in hospitals and clinic settings
-1	Have taken medical terminology do know how to interpret medical terms or read a medical chart.  Read my fathers medical chart.
1	When my sister said her breast cancer had metastasized I knew things did not look good. She died ten months later of cancer.
-1	I went for an routine eye examination and the Doctor there saw something that wasn't sure what it was so he suggested that I see a Specialist of the corneas and he even called and set up an appointment and I went and I have Macular Degeneration in both of my eyes and it is the Dry kind.
-1	I have worked for the department of health before and I learned a lot of knowledge thank god for future reference. I now know what my grandmother is going through and how to help her with long term care and choosing different advantage plans with medicare with her extra benefits.  I also have knowledge in medical terms now that I can speak correctly to a doctor and ask the right questions
1	I knew symptoms of a certain problem a family member was having and I told them to go to the doctor to have it checked out.
-1	Too many questions, I am tired, what is this? A test? A joke? I am boring of this, is the worse surver ever
-1	When I was a bone marrow donor. We had access to blood results and would keep up with the levels daily. 
-1	I can't answer this questions because it does not pertains to me, I have a personal life and I'm not comfortable about telling about my health issues to this survey I just don't and I will not give any information about my personal health issues
-1	I can't think of anything really. I know enough to get to a doctor for some things and enough to not run to the doctor every time I have a sniffle. I know that a lot of things can get better without an antibiotic which have been overused.
-1	I am a retired pharmacy technician and worked with doctors and clinical pharmacists in a hospital setting.  I went to pharmacy technician school where I learned many medical terms and uses of medications.  My daughter is a registered nurse and I learned from talking to her.  Also, my grandson is a doctor in residence.
-1	Understanding what happens when I'm going to give birth. I've been through one C-section already and I'll be having a second one soon.
-1	I have done a lot of studying of breast cancer due to mastectomy and whether to have reconstruction and what the aftermath is of this surgery so have been able to help another family member going through the same problem.
1	I assisted two different friends get their registered nursing degrees by helping them with their course study.  I was especially helpful due my knowledge of human anatomy.
-1	I had been having thyroid trouble for a few years but all my tests came back normal. I had told my doctor to run a certain test I had heard about for my thyroid. He didn't believe me at first but gave me the test and my test results came back positive.
-1	don't really have a big example i understand basics nothing really in too much detail i understand when you have diabetes you need to not eat sugar  and exercise to keep a1c at a good level
-1	I was told I have severe COPD  I asked if it could lead to other lung diseases what they were and how do we treat them
-1	I have a history of seizures and have been told by my husband and friends what I do during a seizure since Ihave no memory of it at all. From that standpoint, I had a friend have a seizure at my house and I knew exactly what to do because of what my husband and friends had told me.
-1	I researched my condition before I went to see the doctors office and it turned out that I was correct in the diagonosis.
1	In my educational experiences Ive done very well in my classes related to health and medical issues. As well as how well i comprehend what the doctor is explaining to me the first time.
-1	i broke my elbow many years ago i was informed that they had to remove halfof my elbow and that i needed to take physical therphy
1	in 2003, I had a pain at the base of my spine after one drink. I thought it might have been my prostate and it was. I had cancer.
1	None I have no experience.        Nor do I have any impeccable knowledge about the health care profession what so ever I am unaware an I knowledgeable about the inner workings                                                                 
1	in my previous occupation as a social worker i was required to have a general knowledge of health contions. i need to know when to consult with a medical professional.
-1	have had no  medical issues so can not answer this question with any valuable answers nothing else to associate this with
1	I have found that I can reduce the risk of heart attack or stroke by using a very effective and easily obtained, low price item, this is an aspirin
1	One of my eyes turned very red and it would not go away. I suspected that something was wrong so I went to see my eye doctor as soon as possible.
-1	i have been treated in the hospital several times for heart related issues and have spoken to several doctors, nurses and medical technicians
-1	I was on a venitaltor for a few days and very sick for a month or more. I had alot of different tests and doctors taking care of me. I learned alot about the medical field.
-1	There was time when I had a false positive mammogram and I to had take many test to rule out if I had to do more
1	The only time I've had to do anything that involved knowledge of medicine was in deciding whether or not to take a drug, based on the severity of the side effects.
1	I can't think of any experience that would demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I don't claim to be vvery knowledgable about such things.  That't why there are health care providers.
-1	i have diabetes and also have family members with diabetes as well. It's made it easier to know the in and out of taking care of myself and blood sugar levels. 
-1	i got diabetes several years ago and started exercising and eating right and my blood sugar has been normal for many years it takes work and dedication but it can be done im living proof
1	My boyfriend often comes to me with health-realted questions. Both my parents were nurses, so I grew up in a home where we solved our own health problems. I am also interested in natural remedies and research non-pharmecudical cures often.
1	I have an auto immune condition that primarily attacks septuagenarian males. I have studied the condition in great detail using medical resourses.
1	i was able to correctly diagnose the symptoms my cat was showing to determine that she was diabetic and required treatment
-1	I knew that my son needed to have his tonsils taken out. The pediatrician checked and referred me to a specialist. He had his tonsils removed and felt much better. 
-1	When I had knee surgery how much pain I went threw I would not which it on anyone it took me four months to walk again.
1	i raised a child successfully... i think that would qualify me as somewhat knowledgeable of health or medical issues....
-1	There was a time when I kept getting sick over and over again for about three months straight. I finally went to the doctor and discovered that if I'd had gotten sick one more time it would've been my last. I was diagnosed with walking pneumonia 
-1	When I was younger I had upper respiratory infections multiple times a year. The doctor would always give me the same antibiotics. I asked if I could get something different, because I learned in my high school class that your body can get used to a specific medication. The doctors agreed with me. 
-1	My husband was coughing and felt ill and couldn't breath well when laying down and went to the doctor and was told he had the flu. He was given medicine and did not get better. I told him I thought he had lung cancer which was proven to be true
-1	follow the account of locution sum report of this session command and follow up on how to submerge as long as you get second standard
1	I went to a fertility doctor and all of my results were given on the portal. I had to read through everything and understand my condition and how it can be treated.
-1	I read. And I hate math. I can't do it. I cannot figure percentages, fractions, what % of whatever is how many %. I just cannot do math except add, subtract and multiply. I cannot divide unless it's a very easy answer.
-1	I fell through a ceiling at work and broke all ther bones in my face and spent a few days in the hospital
-1	i have had alot of issues as have others i my life so i'm around it alot to know wht things mean there for i have a good outcome
-1	When someone has a headache I know that it could mean a lot of things. Maybe you need rest,fluids, relaxation etc.
-1	I do have any experience of in my life of demonstrating health and life issues. I don't have any issues that are demonstrated.
-1	When I was told I have multiple sclerosis I researched a lot of different sites and articles online.I also bought books that I can read. 
-1	I had a digital rectal exam and then a PSA. The PSA was slightly above a number although the DRE was normal. I had the PSA again and it was within normal range for my age/race. The increase may have been due to an increase in sexual activity prior to test.
1	In the Army I started having severe abdominal pain which was accompanied by fever spikes as high as 103 degrees. I remembered these were the same symptoms that happen with appendicitis. I went immediately to sick call and was diagnosed with severe appendicitis.
-1	If I ever have a possible problem, i tend to look it up online and end up learning a lot more than I ever thought i would -- websites have a lot of good information.
-1	I really cannot let you know to demonstrate any knowledge of health or medical issues.  I know I have diabetes 2 and know how to control it and how to test it, but really do not know everything about its
-1	I learned that the thyroid test TSH is not an accurate test of tissue hypothyroidism therefore there can be many not diagnosed
1	When I was on a bike and hit by a car I understood what the loss of a kidney, spleen, and adrenal gland amounted to from a health and medical standpoint.
-1	I have a cousin who is a breast cancer survivor so I know how important it is to have my yearly mammograms.Also I lost another friend to this delay disease.
-1	Run to be a little more time with the wedding is coming tomorrow morning at family dollar store for a few years and I was going to go buy some new outfit if you want me to tell bay friends to tell him I sended think we should have to be a little more than I was going on with the and customer service to you with the wedding is coming tomorrow night at 
-1	I don't know because I don't like to think about health issues. They scare me and it is hard to know if a person is healthy or not just by looking at them. Sometimes I have issues that I feel that I would be scared to have evaluated and would not like the results.
-1	My primary care sent me to the ER because I was having sever pain in my left leg and it had a hard lump.  She was worried it was a blood clot, but I knew it was not.  I argued with her but she still wanted me to go to Er and have a doppler done to rule out blood clot. So I went, and after two hours and a test they concluded it was phlebitis and gave me a RX for antibiotics and keep the leg lifted with ice on it.
1	When I had cancer, I was able to research and make informed decisions about my care. My surgeon was pleased that I was so well informed about my situation and could participate knowledgeably in decision making.
-1	My standing tolerance to pain had begun deteriorating over the past few months.I noticed that I began to lean foward while standing for a period of time.
-1	My father-in-law had fallen and my mother-in-law wondered if she should call an ambulance because he was just dizzy. I told her to call one because he'd taken more medication than he was supposed to and this could be an overdose or something like that, or he could just be dizzy and lost his balance.
-1	Have received continuing, excellent health care during a military career, and after retirement through the Veterans Administration.
-1	My grandmother had open heart surgery, they had informed my parents that during surgery that had to do CPR. She never woke up after the surgery and was in a coma. 2 days later I called to get an update, only to find out that during that time they had to again do CPR 2 times since surgery and that they were having a hard time keeping her BP up without increasing her medications. Informed my parents of the developments and we went up to hospital to talk to the Dr's and see grandmother. We knew this is not what she would have wanted so we asked that no more CPR be preform and the meds no longer be increased. She passed away within a few hours.
1	I have no experience in my life where I demonstrated any medical knowledge.  I depend on info from my doctor, pharmacists, or my sister who is a nurse.
-1	Glory be.  We haven't had that many issues overall, so I don't know what to say.  We are a typically healthy family.  I guess it would be when I get bronchitis.  I've had it so many times, I just know when I have it.
-1	I've had bronchitis many times in life so I know what it is when I get it. I'm always correct when it comes to that
-1	i know just from what i have heard in the past and what i have been thru in the past and that is all i can understand
-1	I have have had several surgeries including a brain tumor. I have had good doctors and bad doctors and have learned the difference.
-1	None applicable. I can't think of nothing. Nothing comes to mind. There is probably something. I just can't think of nothing right off hand.
-1	I when I have gotten sick and did online research and learned what my Issues was. Then I went to my Doctors with this new information and he confirmed it to be true
-1	i fell and tore my left rotator cuff many years ago.up to that point i had never really had any in hospital stay. the operation to correct the problem was more involved than originally diagnosed. i had to due extensive rehab to regain my strength. i gained great admiration for physical therapists
1	I really can't think of any particular situation. I have always tried to learn from my own health issues and from other people's health issues, so that I take better care of myself
1	Having regular doctors visits. Going to college. Researching things on my own. Watching medical related television shows.
-1	I don't have no health issues and I can't tell you what kind of issue will have cuz the doctor told my man good health just need to lose a little weight
-1	When I was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes I knew I would have to take medicine and diet and exercise
1	I feel fully informed about my coronary artery disease.I know about my blockages and the need for me to exercise, eat right, and lower my colesterol level.
-1	When I was 15 I was diagnosed with bipolar. I had to attend doctors offices, labs, and pharmacies instead of dances, and classes.  I had to grow up fast and had to be responsible at a young age.
1	"this is a non issue.  there is nothing in my life that allows me to demonstrate any ""knowledge"" of medical issues. "
-1	my knowledge is just like doctors i look up everything and research everything i dont know. no 1 can know everything!
-1	I went to the doctor after having a reaction to a bee sting, the doctor treated me with antihistamines and gave me an emergency bee sting kit. i now carry at kit with me at all times and replace on the scheduled time frame
-1	I have had training as a nurses assistant and also as a EMT- Emergency medical technician. I have had both certifications for 15 years now.
-1	Saw a young girl on a bus having a seizure She was on the floor so  I sat next to her on the floor and made sure she could not hurt herself  or choke  until it was over  
1	I have worked in medical field for 30 years before retirement 15 yrs ago.  Tho the actual numbers may be slightly off, they are not likely to be too far off.
-1	trail and error, research, reading, expearimenting, common sense...these such things add to it and additional things.......i have never been to college but they just teach whats already known
-1	Working as a caregiver in a group home has taught me a lot about medicine and behaviors. But not good with math
1	Why are you asking all these questions? I have experience and knowledge from college courses taken and life experience 
-1	My brother in law was told his liver was not functioning properly, kidneys were bear functioning, he had 2.7 pints of blood in his body, and blood pressure was low. I knew with the liver and kidneys not working it would be a down hill battle, because they have to work properly for him to live. He lived 35 day. 
-1	I was given the option to have a procedure done to see if they could get rid of my irregulare heartbeat. I decided not to because it could always come back and I would still have to take medication. I decided there was no upside
-1	I had spinal stenosis and a herniated disc and ended up having 2 back surgeries.  Started with minimal arthroscopic procedure and when that did not work I had invasive surgery that ended up with a spinal fusion
1	I cared for my father after his bypass surgery.  As a result of the prolonged surgery and complications, his foot and hand were amputated.  I was instructed on the treatment and dressing of the amputations, which required saline padding to dry the open foot wound and help seal the wound.  I was also in charge of medications and assisting with all the doctors appointments and other treatments.
-1	I have depression and got help. I have hypothroid and take meds. Feel better.i am obese but watch calories and started a gym to help that
-1	My knowledge of health and medicine is to listen learn and ask questions as I go, if I'm not sure and from time to time that is the case I will seak out more information.
1	Every time I ate at a buffet or ate too much at any meal I would have explosive diarrhea and cramping. I was sure I had IBS after monitoring my diet and keeping track of the times I experienced these symptoms. I went to my Dr. Told him I was sure I had IBS, after exams and listening to my symptoms and reading my notes on my diet and symptoms he agreed. He does shake his head sometimes when I share something I read online but for the most part,I go in and tell him what I have and 90% of the time, I am correct. 
-1	i use google and webmd to figure out most things that i need to when i can't make it to a doctor in time
-1	I'm a healthcare professional so I have to use my healthcare knowledge everyday.  Not only at work but at home also.  I noticed certain things in my son as he was growing up.  As he was learning to walk I noticed something was wrong with his feet or his toes to be more specific.  I felt he needed medical help so I made him an appointment with our doctor.  Come to fine out my sons ligaments in his toes where shrinking causing them to curl up under his foot which made it very difficult for him to walk properly
1	Was in a Very, Very Bad Motorcycle Accident and had Many injuries which some are long lasting and still with me for life. I have spent many years in and out of Hospitals and Dr's offices
-1	I have been diagnosed with Crohn's disease and HLH I see a gastroenterologist and a hematology doctor to stay on top of my health 
-1	When in my middle 50's I began experiencing menopause symptoms. Clearly the symptoms lead to a doctor visit, where I was correctly diagnosed. Prescribed medication has helped somewhat.
-1	When my son was an infant he became jaudnice and doctors didn't know what was causing it .I toke him all different doctors and  hospitals in NYC . They did blood tests, ultrasounds and more nobody knew . Finally I went to JohnHopkins in Baltimore, Maryland and they said he was fine .
-1	i don't know much bout health. i am trying to learn more. i want to be healthier because i believe i'd be more happy. i also believe i'll have way more energy.
1	several years ago, when my mother in law had a very low BP, i called her doctor to indicate I questioned  the medicine as well as dosage he had prescribed for her. She did end up in the hospital with kidney issue. . determined to be resultant from the medicine. Internet as well as old fashioned Merck manual helps provide useful information-not to replace your own doctor's advice of course but helps educate and inform.
-1	Loss of eye, pneumonia three times, father was doctor, various illnesses and surgeries, general interest and awareness of medical conditions and problems.
-1	Have had Type 2 diabetes for 16+ years now. Know my optimum blood sugar level range and adjust my insulin before each and every injection. Have been told many times I know more than my doctor.
-1	i don't really know  any be i had a mammograms and it was good and all the other test i took was no problem think God . only my Lupus was bad and i stay in the hospital for a few day
-1	I am not sure but I think if I eat right and exercise properly that it will expand my life expectancy for quite a while
1	Annual (minimum) Doctor (PCP, Dentist, Optometrist) visits while growing up, and for much of my adult life.  While in Vietnam, acquired Plasmodium Falciprium.  Atrial Fibrilation.  I've always been an active and omnivorous reader.  If an artical catches my attention, it gets read.
1	I have had several but one that stands out is when my Mother passed out in a convenience store.  She has low blood sugar and when she came to, someone wanted to give her chocolate.  I knew this would be a bad idea and convinced them to give her orange juice.  This didn't work as she was experiencing vertigo due to an issue with misalignment of inner ear crystals.
-1	I injured myself and was sent to a trauma center and the drs. Explained everything to me so I can understand somewhat what my medical issues
-1	I don't know much about numbers but it is explained to me I could understand. Numbers to me is very difficult don't understand much
1	My wife experienced an illness and I researched home remedies online. After participating in the remedies my wife got better and she was healed without having to go to the doctor or have medicine prescribed. 
1	I have learned how to take my blood pressure using a stethoscope and a spigramonter and also how to check my pulse manually.
-1	My son was not doing well and started to get worse. His breathing increased and I knew that for his age his breaths per minute should be 20-30 but he was breathing about 60-70. We took him to the hospital where the immediately put him on a breathing machine because his breathing was dangerous and if I didn't bring him in when I did it could have been his life.
-1	I'm not sure as to how to properly answer this question.  But I was told I had diabetes and have since been on insulin. 
1	I had a heart murmur that y doctor was concerned about.  I got an echocardiogram that sent me immediately to a cardiologist who sent me immediately to a heart surgeon.  I thoroughly understood that my heart valve was hanging on by a thread and that if it let loose I was dead.
-1	never had to be knowledge about my health or medical issues, i been pretty lucky so far without having to deal with any health issues
-1	i can't really recall much but it was when my mother was having a stroke when i could recognize the symptoms and gel help
-1	I have metal in my lower back and now I have a snapped screw and need to see a surgeon to fix it but I'm afraid to have the surgery because I had problems the first time i really don't want to go under the knife
-1	Well I had people that well newly diagnosed with diabetes talk to me about what they can and can not eat. 
-1	In a few sentences, please describe an experience in your life that demonstrated your knowledge of health or medical issues. not sure maybe when i was very sick with a migraine for a couple days
-1	Working rescue in the Fire Department providing care to injured and sick people until they could be brought to further medical help 
-1	I took care of my sister in hospice during her last months of living.she had terminal breast cancer.I learned alot from the oncology nurse who came to care for her
1	Had open heart surgery and had to learn a lot about the heart, the surgery itself, how to prevent another blockage, and about the medicine I had to take to insure it doesn't happen again
1	I got multiple medium-sized blood clots in both of my lungs and found out that I have three blood clotting disorders. This experience taught me a lot about blood clotting disorders, blood thinning medications and about choosing specialists.
-1	the only issue that I can think of is when i had preclampst  when i was preganant and i was swollen real bad and did not what to think 
-1	When I had an issue I knew that I could look it up online to see what it was by typing in my symptoms and also by telling my doctor about my issues and seeing what they had to say comated to what I found out
-1	 have minor knowledge through school. An i have other experience just by the medical problems my kids have had in the past
-1	I seem to know my body pretty well and I felt as if there was something wrong in my brain.  I've had MRIs in the past and there was nothing.  I went to the doctors and he ordered and MRI and I was right there was a cavernous malformation with dva (developmental venious anomily) in my left temperal lobe of my brain.
1	Was feeling tired before an annual checkup. I had a stress test done which indicated an afib problem
-1	I developed Rheumatoid arthritis about 10 years ago and from my research, I found that it is an autoimmune disease where my body sends out white blood cells, which normally only attack infections, to healthy joints causing pain and eventual distortion of the joints affected. 
1	When I found out I was diabetic, I started reading up on blood sugar level control. Also read about exercising and diet.  I also started eating healthier.
-1	my family has a lot of health issus and i try to learn about condsitions so i look up imformation  plus i like to tay up to date 
1	I became caregiver for my developmentally disabled younger brother and became completely responsible for his medical care over 10 years ago. He has had several health issues over that time and I have been able to resolve most of those  issues.
1	I was showering and felt a lump in my breast and called the doctor that day. Since the lump was found in stage one. I was totally cured and have lived happily ever after for 20 years. 
1	i have been interested in health because it keeps us moving and going. i think it is cool to understand how the body really works and what we can do to improve our health
-1	when I had a severe allergy attack and knew exactly what I needed to do to help me breath. I also used bendadryl to help me
-1	I go through it everyday having to take care of my husband who is a diabetic and I am his caregiver so I deal with his medical issues on a daily basis
-1	My daughter ate at seafood at a restaurant and immediately upon returning home she was violently ill. I determined sha had food poisoning
-1	Hillary chance to history spying Can can't vote and felons can,t vote and felons show go down Bill chance with history
-1	i really dont know. Im not that good at this. my mind get all boggley when I try to concentrate. not really sure why.
-1	I don't know what you're asking me now. I'm getting annoyed with the math questions, so I feel like you're trying to trick me somehow. I am tired and losing focus. 
-1	Seeing that I could not function daily because of depression and needing help to fix it. Being honest that I could not do it all and needed help before things go wrong was what I needed to do. And take time from a demanding job was one of the hardest and most humbling things I've ever done 
-1	I have had many surgeries in my life and use over the counter medication to treat migraine headaches
-1	I experience ADHD and add, bipolar disorder, depression, and autism so I fell how people are when they have problem in my area.
-1	I have not really had any major health issues. Ive been blessed to be for the most part fairly healthy without any problems
1	A few years ago I went in to see a licensed practial nurse about blood in the urine. While there, my blood pressure was checked, and it was high. That was the main concern of the doctor. He also talked to me about the blood in the urine, which was due to an enlarged prostate. He gave me a prescription for both high blood pressure and for an enlarged prostate. I had to process all this information and decide what to do. In time, I understood that my blood pressure was not as bad as what I thought, and that I needed to keep checking on the enlarged prostate. This was a lot to process, but with God's help, I was able to understand and respond to this information. 
-1	have no experiences I care to relate and feel it is none of your business this is an intrusive question
-1	I cared for my sister who was ventilator dependent for 20 years in my home.  I sterilized her equipment and changed her hoses, hooked up oxygen, etc.  I also cared for my mom who had a stroke.
-1	I dont know them and I am not good with percentages I always have trouble with this that is why I have my sister and neice with me
-1	When I awoke and found I was ustable on my feet. As the morning wore on and it was getting no better I told my wife to take me to the emergency room. I was diagnosed with a TIA and sent to the hospital for observation and after 3days of further testing that diagnosis was confirmed.
1	Not difficult at all. I simply followed my physician's instructions.  There have been many lab tests and prescription, along with regular clinic visits.  
-1	well lol  I am not good with math, never have been so this was not an easy survey for me at all, I am not very smart,  so I guess I was just proven that I would not understand  health or medical issues at all never had any reason too figure out  medical or health issues yet
-1	I recently experience some symptoms that I thought were indicative of a UTI. When I went to the doctor, my urine sample did not show any abnormalities. However, when the urine was sent off for culture, it showed 2 different forms of bacteria.
1	I don't have any that come to mind. I know that some of my health knowledge will come in handy now that I have kids.
-1	I studied dental health symptoms on the internet as I noticed things in my personal dental health.  So when I went to the dentist, I was prepared for the worst case scenario even though I knew a worst case scenario wasn't likely.  It helped manage the anxiety of the unknown.
-1	Have been able to  manage arthritis symptoms with herbal remedies and lifestyle changes, thereby saving my body the effects of long term prescription drugs
-1	I demonstrated knowledge of my health issues went I was ill and went to the ER to receive treatment, I had self-diagnosed my own problem before it became too serious and told the doctors what was happening. After several tests, the doctors diagnosed me with e problem stated, I had surgery a few days later and then recovered for a few more days before going home to heal.
-1	My mother and father both had catastrophic health issues, my mother emphysema  and my father leukemia and emphysema. I had to learn how to use oxygen tanks and oxygenator machines to help them both. 
-1	I used to work I a healthcare facility. I have a,so been to my share of hospitals and doctors appointments with my family's poor health history. 
-1	I think just knowing my body and any problems I might have has further my medical knowledge in the greatest way because it is the best learning experience
1	I don't have any experiences like this.  I am only doing simple algebra and reading instructions carefully.
1	 I'm not sure there has been any? Maybe the last time I had to message one of my drs about problems I was having with a new medication
1	Going through the process of being pregnant as a high-risk patient and delivering a healthy baby required reading and filling out a lot of paperwork, in addition to many interactions with nurses and doctors.
-1	When I got shingles, I understood what severe pain was for about a month and how there was nothing I could do about it at that time when I got them.
-1	I am not really sure at all, but nutrition is my bag. Medical issues is not mu=y experites at all. these questions are not for everyone who does know medical issuese.
-1	Someone I know was showing signs of a seizure. I quickly reacted and got them out of harms way, so that they wouldn't hurt themselves while they were falling.
-1	I have a lay mans knowledge, that said, at the first sign of a health condition for me or for any member of my family I let the appropriate doctor test and diagnose any health problems that may be occurring.
-1	i cant htink of anything. ive never been sick nor has anyone in my family been. we're all pretty healthy.
1	i had been diagnosed with cancer  and wa sable to have surgery to remove it all  as of today i amd cancer free and am optomistic i will stay that way in the future
-1	LOSING WEIGHT AND TAKING MY MEDICINE.  GOING TO THE DOCTOR ON TIME AND NOT MISSING APPOINTMENTS.  TELLING THEM EVERYTHING THEY NEED TO KNOW..
-1	This was one of the worst surveys ever.....I don't need to know statistics, my doctors does and then can explain it so I understand.   This is what doctors are for
-1	I have had three children. I could list from beginning to end the process of seeing an OBGYN to have children. I have worked in the medical field, both clinical and clerical. I read medical journals occasionally.
-1	I woke up one morning with blood in mu urine. I drank some water and checked the situation, more blood, called the Dr's office explained my sym and got an appointment. I kept them informed until I got to the office and had a series of tests which indicated I had an infection
-1	Been to the doctor plenty of times for multiple reasons as well as going with family for some sort of screening/care.
-1	Currently dealing with a range of issues with the Veterans Administration due to my military serivce.  In addressing each of the issues, I have interacted with primary care physicians, nurses, lab techs, as well as specialists.
-1	On numerous occasions I have read my blood and lab reports which gave the ranges of acceptance.  I worked in a hospital for over 10 years and am familiar with more medical terms than the average individual
-1	In 2012 I was diagnosed with breast cancer. Since Feb. 2014 I have been cancer free. I been through my share of doctors, nurses, chemo and radiation to know that every single medical person out there has there own beliefs not everyone has your best interest at heart. 
-1	My Husband had numerous health issues. Internal bleeding from and ulcer eating into and artery, lung cancer, heart attack, heart failure, skin cancers, prostate cancer, that had me in touch with numerous doctors and hospitals and learned a lot.
-1	I have worked in the medical field for 17 years I worked in the oncology area and that helped me learn a lot  
-1	My husband has diabetes and I have monitored his health and taught him how to eat better to lower his blood sugar.
-1	My 2 year old nephew was diagonsed with type one diabetes and we have to count his carbohydrates and watch his blood sugar
-1	When caring for my Mother who had terminal cancer I encountered many types of insurance forms, and hospice  that needed to be completed and filed.
-1	finding out my mother had Alzheimer's and understanding what that would mean for her and for our family since I'd read up on this; and I now do everything I can to protect myself.
-1	Going to the doctor with my husband for gastro issues and they wanting him on a bad medicine and it was under a law suit.  So I let the doctor know and it was under a law suit. 
1	That can occur almost daily but the most significant recent event was when my daughter had an emergency appendectomy.
-1	I currently have diabetes.  I have been told and have read literature both online and in physical form, that diet and exercise can be useful in trying to keep the diabetes in control.  So, I try to watch what I eat and try to get some exercise, along with the medication I have been prescribed to do just that.
-1	I only understand what my psychiatrist and therapist tell me because I study psychology. I do not understand anything they say at Patient First.
-1	I can't really remember anything and at this point the survey is starting to get frustrating to the point that I don't even want to continue
-1	When a family member had open heart surgery, I was able to ask the doctor questions that helped put the family member at ease
-1	My mother was admitted at a hospital for a long time the then I got chance to visit hospital most of the time and I have gathered knowledge. 
-1	Severe acid reflux, required going to emergency room, getting medicine to stop vomiting and burning of chest and back. Nexium was prescribed and a tube was inserted to check status of my esophogus.
-1	thankfully i have never been hit with a medical life threatening medical diagnosis. I usually see a doctor when I am ill with a common cold. nothing more serious
-1	Well we were in a doctors office and i was asked a question but nobody knew the answer until my mom ask someone closeby and then all of the sudden i remembered the answer.
-1	I was told that I have disease that will make it harder for me to lose weight than an average person, was also told of the fertility issues directly from this disease . So was told to get my health in order if I wanted to have children and lower my risk of other diseases.
1	I was being treated by a doctor who was explaining things to someone shadowing him. When he couldn't think of an answer, I answered for him.
1	Being diagnosed with breast cancer, brought this disease to the forefront.  After seeking professional health and much personal research, I felt (at that time) I was knowledgeable about it.  Since then so much has changed, that if I was diagnosed again - I would have to start the search over.
1	I have never had to demonstrate my knowledge of health nor medical issues before, just questions about my health whenever I have ever visited a doctor or healthcare service worker.
-1	My daughter gets ear infections all the time due to having very small ear canals that don't let her wax drain properly.  So in I know when she has ear infections or when one is about to start to know she will need meds.
-1	I contracted shingles almost 2 years ago, it affected the right side of my face and head, I am trying to learn more about shingles on my own as most Drs. know nothing about shingles
-1	I have had high blood pressue for neatly 4 years now.  My sister has diabeties and has for over 15 years. My mom had a stroke. My grand father had alzhiemers
1	I used to get vaginal yeast infections a lot. After several times, I read up on it and learned what was a yeast infection and what was bacterial. If I was pretty sure it was yeast, I would by over the counter medication for that. If not, I would visit my doctor.
1	My son was in the hospital for 30 days total, over three visits.  When the nurses came to check his IV machine, there were times I could suggest to them what was wrong, simply because I had seen other nurses fix it so many times
1	I WAS THE PRIMARY CAREGIVER/GUARDIAN OF MY MOTHER(AGE 90) WHO HAD SEVERE ALZHEIMER'S, CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE, GERD. SHE FELL AND BROKE HER HIP AND HAD TO HAVE A STABILIZATION SURGERY AND REHAB.  SHE DIED THREE MONTHS LATER. 
-1	High blood pressure if I stress over my worries one day at a time I have a history of strokes in my family in I'd want to be mext
1	There have been a lot of instances in my life requiring my understanding of medical issues. They have been personal and/or have involved my husband or children. I see no need to parade them for you.
1	When i had my son he had a high bilirubin level. I learned what this was as well as the treatment and causes. I was very interested in learning anything new that makes me more knowledgeable about illnesses
-1	My husband was sick for eight years,  He had multiple issues and I was his primary caregiver.  the medical world is not kind.  It was necessary for me to be a strong advocate.
-1	My recent readings on the A1C tests revealed that my numbers did not reflect a diabetic condition; so I questioned the results with another sugar test and found out that I did not have diabetes.
1	When I was diagnosed with breast cancer, I was told that my onco test was 19.  The onco test is used to determine whether a patient should have radiation or chemo.  The cut off is 18 for radiation is 18.  I was told that there was another test, unfortunately not always available, that was more accurate.  With this test usually someone with an 19 onco test score had a recommendation of radiation.  Since I was only one point beyond radiation, I decided that I would go with radiation.
-1	knowing when to go  to the doctor or emergency room when having unexplained pains or persistent problems that last over time.
-1	When I was a kid my mom toke me and my sister to Dr .when the Dr was going to give my sister a shot see try to run out of room and the Dr pickher up and slam her down . 
-1	I haven't experienced any kinds of health or medical issues in my entire life.  So far, I've been fortunate with my health and I prefer to keep it that way.
-1	I don't have any issues but did have a false positive screening for a mammogram which was proven to be wrong
1	certified personal trainer and group fitness instructor. constantly talking about  medical findings with my running partner(who is also my primary care ) that I see 5x/week
-1	When I go to eat and have to check carbs and calories on a label. I alway check them to make sure they are in the correct range for me to eat. 
-1	I used to take medical transcription course and I was doing pretty good on it. When I see different medication names I can sometimes know what that medication is for.
-1	I have medical issues is that movement disorder . i have to take four medicine. I could not sleep well at all.
1	My first husband was diagnosed with metastatic lung cancer and I was able to help him make decisions regarding his treatment options and explain medications
-1	Fortunately I have not had any health or medical issues where I had to use any  medical knowledge I had.
-1	I worked with nurses who provided home health care.  I typed their patient care notes and filed labs, medical orders, put charts in order.  Interesting reading material at times.
-1	i really dont know i know some things but if i want to learn more i look up online to read up on health issues
1	I never had one because I'm not a doctor or nurse or other medical professional. I don't like math or science
1	I have been taking diabetic medication for ten years. I have been monitoring my results weekly and have been interpreting those results each week so I may notify my doctor should they not appear good.
1	When I had to have cervical fusion surgery to fuse discs in my neck--I knew which ones they were & why it was necessary (i.e., pressure on my nerves; nerve damage; pain, etc.)
1	When my daughter was having a hard time eating because her throat hurt I knew that it was likely strep throat or allergies. I took her to the doctor and I was told what I already knew, she had strep throat and was contagious.
-1	I don't claim to be super knowledgeable about the medical field but I understood completely when the doctor says I have the flu 
-1	I had to consult with a specialist in dermatology. During the discussion at her office she indicated that I was sufficiently aware of my body. I can't recall what the reason for consulting was but it might have been in regard to a wound that wasn't healing. It's been too long for me to remember more that her statement to me. 
1	My mother used to be a nurse as did my great-aunt. They discussed operations at the dinner table. I have a good medical background.
-1	I can't think of any experience other than over time knowing what was wrong when my children were sick.
-1	i have high cholesterol and i knew what he was telling me because i had looked up the numbers before hand
-1	I have asthma so I can tell when I am starting wieh a attack. I willl become short of breath and start to wheeze. the I know to start my meds to prevent from getting anu worse
-1	I knew I had to start an exercise program when I found out I had osteoporosis. I also had to start taking medication to start rebuilding my bones and eat foods high in calcium.
1	Explaining my cancer diagnosis and treatment to primary care doctor and othr doctors. as able to explain treatment and potential results when discussing treatment for other matters.
-1	I try to watch what I can, read labels if necessary, try to follow dr's orders. My mother was more interested with vitamin supplements and I try to figure out which ones that I need.
-1	I smoked cigarettes for 50 years and recently quit because I knew that quitting would either improve my health or prevent future health issues.
-1	i typically research and read most medical study and articals to keep up to date on the latest information on good health and parituclarly anything I come across relate to my health issues.
-1	When I've had a cold or the flu I used what I know from experience, t.v. and Google that I had it. Then I knew over the counter medicine would help me.
-1	I have some knowledge regarding my health especially my mental health. I am very aware of my depression and anxiety. I am aware of how I am supposed to deal with my stuff.
-1	i have had  a mammomgram to satisfy the doctor that never returns my calls. and could care less bout me.
-1	I came down with fatty liver after my son was born and the Dr told my family I had 3 day to live unless he did certain things that need to be done and my family gave him consent to do whatever need to be done and because of that I'm here today and my son is now 21 thanks to the dr
-1	when i went to the ER for a double ear infection and learned i also had hypertension. i was given a sheet all about it along with the prescriptions.
-1	working in medical records for 19 years  and experiencing maybe miscarriages  - my last one  I knew before the doctor explained to me what was happening.
-1	I have had diabes for 5 years and taking medications to help me.  I am trying to lower my A1C by exercising and eating less carbs
-1	I really don't know any. I can't remember any at the moment. My memory is bad due to a traumatic brain injury
-1	Many occasions with medications (including anesthesia) I explained I had a sensitivity or low tolerance but dosage was never adjusted.  This caused much discomfort, some possible dangerous situations. I now do my own research on all medications and health related issues for myself before taking doctor's recommendations.
1	I cannot think of any except when I had a heart attack and I chose to wake my girlfriend to take me to the hospital in the middle of the night rather than waiting till morning
1	When I was pregnant with my second child, I learned that she was breach. I tried to learn all I could about that condition. Although the doctor tried a procedure to turn her in the womb, it failed. I have birth vaginally without anesthesia to a 6lb, 10 oz. healthy baby. I did not have overwhelming fear because of the time I spent learning about the options for breach delivery.
-1	i wanted to be a nurse and study some. I also have a special needs daughter so i am always teaching myself about issues 
-1	i can't really recall anything, except once i saw a customer of mine drink part of a beer, begin sweating and start to pass out.  i called paramedics, and he had sunstroke
-1	Scheduled for a colonoscopy and had issues with being put under and not waking up.  Extremely leery of being put under again .
1	Took a job working in pharmaceutical industry and regularly conversed with medical staff regarding different pharmaceuticals effect on different patients.
1	I've had several health challenges myself, and I've helped my mom through having cervical cancer.  I've had to handle all these things on my own.
-1	On a camping trip, my riend slipped on a wet rock a twisted his ankle. I disinfected it, wrapped it and made an improvised crutch. I told him to elevate the foot. 24 hours later the swelling did go down.
1	burning urine and sudden urgency coupled with cloudiness indicates a prostate infection in the male human being.You give a urine sample so the dr. can give you the correct antibiotic to kill the bacteria.
-1	I suddenly had constipation which I had never had before and it was not responding to any of the conventional treatments and I just felt that it was not really a bowel problem. I thought it might be connected to my thyroid because I had been having other symptoms of hypothyroidism which were confirmed, but when correcting that with medication still wasn't really helping the constipation issue I kept exploring until I had convinced my doctor to check into the possibility that it could be a neurological issue. After some tests it was determined that I had a couple of herniated disks in my neck and while nobody would suggest that this could be causing the problem I agreed to have cervical fusion surgery to alieviate the pressure and once I was off the pain medication after the surgery I started having regular bowel movements again.
-1	I was told I had cancer and had to read up on various treatments, where they were performed, clinical trials
-1	when going to the physician with my mother and she is not able to follow what the physician has told her  regarding hr heart function she feels improved heart function mens her heart has been totally healed
-1	Jehovah the same way to your house and it will be the same way to your house and it will be the same way to to do it away. sex and the other half type your comment here topics. sex and and it will be the same way to your house
1	I had been working hard in my yard one Saturday and went to bed late at night.  When I woke up in the morning my whole left side felt tingly like it was asleep.  I knew right away that something was wrong and suspected I had had a mild stroke.  I went to hospital and later went to Mayo Clinic where it was confirmed that I had a stroke.
1	a pacemaker was potentially needed and my heart was missing an occasional beat causing dizziness.  I had a choice of not having the pacemaker or dealing with possibly having more dizzy spells which could start a heart attack or lose of life.
-1	I have had a brother go through 2 bouts of cancer and then pass away from a blood clot to the lungs. He completely beat the cancer but developed lung problems after the cancer therapy 
-1	I once had a patient that had just finished up an antibiotic for pneumonia. He looked awful.  I asked him how he felt,  he said tired. I asked if he had checked his bs lately ( he was not great at taking care of himself). Turned out his bs was 400's! He was lucky! Off  to the hospital we went!
1	"I cannot recall any experience where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical ""issues""-- not even sure what you mean by ""issues"" in this context."
1	Generally the last five years I worked can be used as an example of superior medical knowledge in terms of SSA disability adjudication 
-1	I quit going to doctors over 20 years ago.  With proper care, good hygiene and common sense, I believe one is able to care for themselves adequately.  The medical field has become an ineffective maize of red tape and inappropriate control by the insurance companies to control their payouts, often denying patients the best or most effective treatment to preserve their health.
-1	I had been feeling tired and lathargic for several days. I reported this condition to my primary care physician and the next day I obtained a colonoscopy which proved positive. Shortly after I received a colon section.
-1	My son played Division I men's soccer.  He has suffered from at least 4 concussions.  I usually use the data from the Impact Test to determine when his symptoms are back to base line.
-1	I can't really explain a time where I was I had the complete knowledge of the medical issue and at the time I really didn't want to know.
1	Requesting my pathology results from my breast biopsies. Since 2 tests were run, only one was evident in my chart. My chemo was written based on that one result,which was not a very reliable test. I requested to see the other results, upon them finding those results, my entire chemotgerapy regimen was changed.i am here almost 7 years later answering this survey
1	Caring for patients in Air Force hospital and reporting their condition and vital sign to the nurse in charge.
1	Worked in a clinical laboratory for 40 years performing lab tests, also performed quality control and regulatory compliance.
-1	common sense to read and  think through each question, and basic math skills to come up with the best answer
-1	I've had ulcers, an incurable skin disease, chronic tendinitis, and many issues misdiagnosed which made me become more involved in self management and learning more about my health issues
-1	I had my first back surgery which 2 disc had to be removed.  10 years later, I begin to have the same symptoms that I had with my first back surgery.  I went to a neuro doctor, and sure enough, the other sides of my disc had reptured.  A rib as taken from my upper rib cage and fused into my 2nd and 3 lower disc.  This was 1981.  I do not have any problems today as I am very careful of what I do.
1	Although I feel that I have a pretty good knowledge of health an medical issues; I can't really think of an experience,other than a few instances of rendering emergency first aid to others, that demonstrates my knowledge. 
-1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes I had to start learning more about the topic of medication and about taking care of myself
1	When I had a test for cholesterol, I measured the results against the norms to see where I fit in for each category. When I visit a doctor, I can usually understand what they are telling me and can ask appropriate questions.
-1	I had cervical cancer, which killed my mother in the early 50's.  I learned the difference  in the treatment.
-1	I had torn cartilage in my knee and had to have the cartilage scraped and I knew that when it was fdone that the pain would be gone
-1	Medical assistant,vet assistant not sure but worked with dr on clinical duty,and yrs latrr worket for a vet
-1	I had a son with an autoimmune disorder that took constant and are research to find cures to bring him to remission
1	I was diagnosed with familial breast cancer 25 years ago. I had to quickly learn all I could about the disease and its treatment.
1	I cannot think of an experience where I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues. That isn't something I've had to do.
-1	I was having tingling in my right foot. Doctor diagnosed me with PVD and recommended exercise and diet changes. Problem turned out to be blocked bilateral aorta in groin. Found partially blocked aorta above heart flaking off and blocking bilateral. Stent inserted but too late to save both feet from being amputated.
-1	I don't have any experiences with the medical profession to be able to answer this question I have been lucky in that matter
1	I am able to set my own insulin amounts by watching my daily carb counts, I have an insulin pump and insulin varies by your daily carb counts
-1	My experience indicates that this is one of the least well constructed surveys I have ever had the displeasure of working on.  Not only are the questions poorly presented the english and grammar is of poor quality.  In summary, this is one of the most disgusting surveys I have ever had the displeasure of completing!
-1	i have had a lot of medical drama in the last ten years in my life and the lives of relatives that seems to never end
1	I have no idea, I guess I know that an appendicitis is a very sharp lower right abdomen pain that when you push on it you feel less pain and when you let go the pain increases
1	I believe just being a parent you learn what is serious and what is a normal thing that the body can recover from in a short period of time not requiring a doctor visit. I don't have a dramatic experience to share.
-1	when I was 17 I was told I needed hip surgery and every thing was explained to me and I completely understood everthing
-1	 im not really sure. this survey required a bit too much math problems. not all ofus are that smart.Imburned out now
-1	My husband recently had laminectomy back Surgery & I had to be very knowledgeable on the surgery, recovery & final diagnosis.
-1	an experience in your life that demonstrated your knowledge of health or medical issues is i dont know at all what so ever so i am not sure and i really do not know and stuff like that and ya
1	Prior to getting married, my husband was diagnosed with testicular cancer.  I went to the medical library at a local college and researched the latest treatments for his particular type of cancer.
-1	I really can not say of an actual experience that I have had about my knowledge of health and or medical issues. I have a pretty good medical record.
1	i know running helps in reducing the hearth risk.. So i keep running. I know when you sprain your muscles you should try and keep it immobalized as possible
1	I recently asked my doctor if I could stop taking one of my three blood pressure medicines because I have lost weight by exercising 3-6 days per week. He agreed that this was a good idea.
-1	Had medical training for 42 years and if there are any questions I would consult my Doctor immediately to take any tests needed
-1	I strongly feel my life is good . i had a scare in my life when i was young. i have now be taking very good of myself 
1	I have been studying and writing books on natural healing andnatural medicine for over thirty-five years.
-1	Getting a seasonal cold. Drink plenty of water to cleanse the body. The cold will go away at some point.
1	this entire survey is insulting and asinine. I hope it is over soon, because I am getting very tired of it.
1	Several years ago I had severe bruising on my lower leg from an injury that subsequently  developed some complications. I saw my doctor to get his opinion. When we were done he asked me to explain my condition to an intern in training and left the room. I had to help them with their medical vocabulary several times during the process.
-1	I was diagnosed with testicular cancer and was told that I had two options to help become cancer free. We the information I was giving, i made the decision that I felt comfortable with and I don't regret it.
-1	I don't have any experience that demonstrates my knowledge. I just do what I can to listen and take in information
1	This was harder to complete than I normally expect.  You asked me to do mathematics in a way that I cannot be confident in the outcome.  I will pass on the arithmetic next time, if you don't mind
-1	I have not have this kind of experiences in my life, just the learning things in school, learning through my life
-1	I was diagnosed with a.v. malformation in my hand after the surgeon opened me up to remove what he thought was a cyst and found a mess of veins and abnormal blood cells. Two surgeries later the pain came back and I went to my old doctor and it was unfathomable to him that this condition could be in my hand. I had to explain it and get my records from the surgeon who wouldn't see me due to a change in my insurance. 
-1	I can't recall any particular occasions, except when I've suffered from Pneumonia and the physician would not first perform a CT scan immediately (on my spouses and my information) to diagnose me, since my past pneumonia occurrences did not show up with simple diagnostic chest X-rays. After 5 days of my illness, the physician finally did a CT scan and it showed double pneumonia in more than once instance. 
1	My brother frequently has complications from Cancer he had as a child. Anytime I hear about what doctors tell him, my knowledge is tested. 
1	I've had an extensive occurrence of medical experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues through schooling amongst other situations.
-1	I do a lot of research I got very sick when my 13yr old son was killed 32yrs later I'm still suffering from the experience mentally and physically  
-1	I had a sharp pain on my right side. I did some research and decided with my risk factors that I probably needed to have my gall bladder removed.  My doctor agreed; however, we both turned out to be wrong. When my test results came back, I actually had colon cancer.
-1	Some time after getting diagnosed as having gastritis I realized that it was most likely emotional stress that caused it. I know from taking psychology that a lot of illnesses are caused by stress. 
1	When I was diagnosed with having a epilepsy. I was able to understand what the doctor was saying and was able to tell him the things I should look for or things I feel prior to a seizure and also tell how I could help alleviate/prevent future seizures. 
-1	Hmmmm......I am not actually able to think of a specific incident where major medical issues were a threat or present.
-1	Enduring drug withdrawal symptoms that forces the body to shut down. Wait until everything restarts then slowly move.
1	I worked for a health insurance company for a brief amt of time and I did customer service. I reviewed the customer's insurance plans to help them out.
-1	A visit to the ER last year and had severe pain and wasnt sure what was causing the pain and whatever pain meds the doctors and nurses gave me was not working, they failed to tell me what they gave me to subside the pain and what side effects were likely to occur. They should tell these things upfront.
-1	I was in a car wreck and my legs were crushed. The doctors had me in morphine for pain. I learned a lot about medicine.
1	Understand the reasons for specifics diets. Have done independent research to confirm advice given is accurate.
-1	I took health assessments at my previous job.  These make me aware of high cholesterol, blood pressure, and effects of being overweight.
1	I have spent time reading messages on health website describing steps to take to maintain good health such as regular exercise, a good diet, and getting sufficient sleep, etc.  I have followed the advice and at the age of 82 I would say that I am in excellent health able to do everything I want to without assistance. I never get colds or the flu and I'm fully able to enjoy outdoors activities and life in general. So I guess it works. l
-1	I have high blood pressure and for years it had not been regulated so when I got pregnant with my baby it went down and I came off medicine, but when I delivered it went right back up that was 6 years ago and now it's under control.
-1	When my dad had a heart attack I seemed to automaticlike know what to do. I was able to give him nitro and an aspirin. Dr. Said my actions were a lifesaver for him. I guess from watching so much TV and shows like Grey's Anatomy I picked up alot along the way. 
1	My total blood cholesterol was a little bit high, but I know that the raw number is not as important as the ratio between HDL and LDL. I explained that to the doctor who agreed cholesterol lowering medication was not necessary in my case. 
1	I have had several family members with many medical issues so I learned to pay attention and try to understand what was going on.
-1	Well I am not really clear on what you want. But i have Afib and I have found that by relaxing and breathing just right you can get it to run right. 
-1	I was once told that my sister was prediabetic. There is no diabetes in our family. However, my sister was grotesquely overweight. Therefore I gave her the emotional assistance that she need to maintain a healthy weight.
1	I had a major surgery and afterwards had to make significant lifestyle changes. This meant exercise, diet and vitamins daily.
1	I used to work in surgery. When I'd hear what sorts of cases were coming in, I'd be able to determine all the equipment, instruments, even how long the operation might take. I'd even know what size gloves to put out for the crew!
1	I have had medical issues that i have had to deal with some of these things. I know some basic knowledge but that's about it.
1	I don't know if it shows I have specific knowledge, but I do like to stay informed, and I think people in my friend group think of me as someone with knowledge, so they often come to me for advise. Or maybe it's just that I'm older than most of them.
-1	i was a coordinator of clinical trials for stroke both medical and surgical for 30 years at a well known medical center in nyc
-1	Well I have a hard time just understanding  this  doctor  stuff  because  you ask a question  and they do not answer  or they do not know
-1	Ijust know I listen and watch other people who have had problems and I learn from that Ihave had so many close calls and learned from them
-1	when I had a chronic illness I had to look up all of the information known about it because most doctors still use methods that were taught 50 years ago, are outdated and do not treat the patient, disease or their pain. 
-1	with my sister who has ms and having a uncle that had this also.  The similarities arfe exactly alike
-1	I have just basic knowledge and have not had an experience to share. Once my husband was in pain and I did get him to go to the emergency room and it was his appendix.
1	I don't really have any knowledge I look things up on the computer and try to make since of it. It that's about it
-1	lowering temperature of young babt fast by using cool compresses repeatedly until danger of seizure passed.
-1	When my mom had a mild stroke I read alot of information about the issue and tried to understand it the best that I could. 
-1	The death of my Father and Mother.  My Mom thought Doctors were Gods and never questioned war was said to her.  My Dad was less inclined to real that way.  Due to misinformation give them they bit passed to to medical errors and general unclean conditions.  They passed 12 years apart, so the bad medical judge met was not related. 
1	I think the biggest reason I don't smoke is because of my dad.  He died at 61 with complications from pneumonia.   I remember him running out of breath walking up 5 steps into our house and puffing on his luck strike cigarettes at he same time. 
1	I was regularly tired and gaining weight.  This did not seem normal to me.  I asked my doctor about it and he tested my thyroid.  It turned out to be hypothyroidism and I was prescribed medication.
-1	I had an incident when I had a tubular pregnancy and I did not realize it until It had burst.  I was very fortunate to have a doctor that knew what to do to save me
1	for four years I did medical work from giving shot to suturing people in the emergency room.I learned extensive medical procedures and that transforms into more than a most peoples knowlege
-1	I have controlled by blood pressure thru by diet and exercise and taking a small dosage of medicnce everyday.
-1	Had my first sciatica nerve attack about 3 yrs ago. Was a full blown one I was in so much pain and could not really tell where it was coming from. My husband thought it was a heart attack.
-1	i don't really recall. i would have to go over health records from the past to determine the answer to that. i don't think i have the data to find the answer at the moment
-1	I dont know the answer to these questions wish i was smart i could get all these right i am guessing 80% most every one has cancer anymore
1	I cannot think of an experience in my life that would demonstrate my knowledge of heath issues. I have not had a lot of issues so therefore not a lot of experience. 
-1	I've worked in two different types of medical offices. Plus, I've earned an AAS in medical technology.
-1	I know some stuff about health and have some knowledge about it. I can talk to my doctor about things and would understand. 
-1	person in our household visited a doctor and the nurse in office did not know how to obtain certain info pertaining to get info from ins comp, subsequently I researched the necessary info and found the correct answers.
1	My little knowledge of health and medical issues come from high school health class and a biology call I took in college.
-1	When I was diagnosed with cancer and had to,under go chemotherapy   I did understand most of the medical,terms used during my treatment
-1	anminec for two years in a row. dr. told me that I needed  a colinestomie. found one  small  poluip. so small he had to put in tat so he could find it. had it removed was cancer but was caught in time
-1	when I had my skin cancer and my doctor explained to me what to do and how to try and prevent from getting skin cancer again.
-1	I have had 10 different surgeries for things, I have had type 2 diabetes, obese, hernias, cancer, so I have heard all kinds of different things to be done, or medicines to take.
1	The other night, I was having dinner with extended family, and we were discussing a situation in which a family acquaintance was given something to slow down labor because the baby was not to term yet. My father in law expressed skepticism about what could possibly be done for the child, and my husband (again, he's a doctor) explained that they don't have to delay the birth by much in order to give the mother a drug that will vastly accelerate the baby's ability to breathe outside the womb. I asked if that drug had anything to do with surfactant, and my husband affirmed that it indeed had. I don't remember where I read that information, but I read a lot of medical papers for my work, and I read quite a bit about prenatal development while my own child was gestating. 
-1	Just the basics of understanding what the doctor says and if not understanding asking very pertinent questions.
1	I was talking to a friend when he had severe chest pains and fell to the ground.  I instructed a person standing nearby to call 911.  I loosened my friend's clothing and shoes and placed something under his head to make him more comfortable.  I reassured him that everything would be fine until the emergency personnel arrived to take care of him.
-1	i have not had flu symptoms but instead of taking a flu shot, decided to go without and did not get the flu.
-1	I can't think of any. I'm not really an expert on health issues. I am schizophrenic and had a heart condition when I was younger, but I have no idea when medical knowledge ever played a significant role in my life.
1	my family had many conditions that needed medical treatment and most of the time it did not workday to the lies that the drug companies tell the people to make money
1	As a late teen, my daughter began experiencing frequent fatigue, joint pain, low grade fevers, and some digestive issues. I knew enough to know that something was wrong, but began to suspect that dietary factors were playing a large role in her problems. I based this on the fact that her conditions would improve over the summer breaks from college, when she was eating a healthier diet (home as opposed to dormitory food).
-1	I was a caregiver for my mom who had high blood pressure and heart problems.  I took her pressure everyday and kept records of it.
-1	I have very few experiences with any medical issues. I never had surgery, I never had any bones broken, I go to see doctor for regular annual check up 
1	Sometimes it is very confusing or I do not pay enough attention or do not have desire to calculate due my  low interest to this problem.
-1	"An accident in 1968,home on leave from the U.S.Navy,I took my brother for a ride,suggested by my mother,and hit a tree.I had to have ""Trake""performed on me,since one lung had collapsed and the other was filled with blood.To make a long story short when bandages were taken off,back aboard ship, ""Proud Flesh"" had replaced actual flesh covering the hole in my throat.The corpsman cut it all out with a scalpel.On a scale of 1 to 100 on trusting doctors my trust is about 15 ......on a good day !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
1	I raised seven children in a remote area. Our physician had me keep various medicines on hand to use until a child could reach a hospital. I had to know which medicine to use in a given circumstance, the weight of each child and how much to give according to their weight. 
-1	high blood pressure do not like taking pills wish i could get off of them i hate taking pills heusj hdfstsb jdirhhnc htrr
1	I have researched issues that can occur as a result of gall stones (which I have), and discussed them with my doctor.
1	The other day my dad called me complaining of weakness in one leg. I knew that this could be a sigh of a stroke and convinced him to go the ER instead of leaving work to go home and lay down. I was right: he had a stroke and I possible saved his life with my advice.
-1	I have asthma which it often have me to be rush to the doctor for check up and such and taking medication which I sometimes don't like to take but because of my health I have to take it 
1	A friend was having epigastric pain that I thought was probably a gall bladder attack and it was. I practiced nursing successfully for over twenty years
-1	When my mom had diabetes I had to get her pills for her twice daily.  I learned what pills she took and put them in her pill container. 
-1	I went to the doctor and was told I needed to take blood pressure medication to lower my blood pressure but that if I would loose weight and eat a better diet that I could reduce or even stop the medication. So I started excercising and regulating my diet, lost some weight and was able to reduce the amount of blood pressure medication I was taking.
-1	I recall getting a positive reading from a lab result. I knew it was a false positive because the diagnosis required specific exposures. Since I did not engage in these specific behaviors or in a specific location, I was not worried about the results. Further testing provided a negative result.
-1	I literally lived in a hospital for a full year with a loved one who was mid diagnosed it affected both forever, they had to be right and wouldn't listen
-1	I thought I had breast cancer but I don't and it scared me a lot and to withyour family a lot. More and tolove them a lot more in life
-1	Having to deal with the Dept of Veterans Affairs for the last 14 years and what they are willing to do and what they won't do for you. They would much rather just give you a pill instead of dealing with problems I have.
-1	when i know how to calculate how many carbs do i need to consume everyday to lose some weight and what is the best thing to east and what should i be avoided
1	kept gaining weight without increasing food intake or changing habits, also was constantly cold especially in the feet and hands as well as losing some hair.  Googled and found that this was a potential thyroid condition.  Made appointment with doctor explained conditions and my findings.  He then did tests and confirmed that had hypothyroid condition.
-1	I work with students with special needs such as feeding tubes, seizures, Autism, etc so each day I have to monitor those needs in order to do what is best for my students. 
1	I know if your blood glucose is 300 or higher, you are a diabetic and your glucose needs to be checked immediately. If you have not been diagnosed yet, the doctor will inform you that you are diabetic. Depending on how high it actually is, you might have to go on insulin right away (type 1 diabetic is insulin dependent) type 2 diabetic, you can control with oral meds, diet, and exercise.
-1	I can't describe a situation In my life that demonstrated knowledge of issues . Maybe taking birth control for estrogen loss 
-1	I currently suffer from Urticaria and learned from my own research that it is related to high levels of histamine and lack of dao enzymes
-1	I am going to be a good time for health issues when I was in the doctor appointment cause it is too much sometimes for people to go so much I am healthy
-1	Can't really think of anything unless you count the time my sister was pregnant and had mastitis. Her breasts hurt her so I told her to go and put warm wash clothes on her nipples to open the poors up. She didn't listen to me as usual so she put up with the pain. That's what hard headed little sisters get when they don't listen to people.
1	I have chronic asthma. There are always new drugs or inhalers on the market for long-term prevention. I've done my own research and what works and what has the highest risks so I can talk with my allergist about what's best for me. 
1	I don't really have any. I've been very fortunate. I have a MBA and a BS in Computer Science so I have some level of knowledge. 
-1	High blood pressure, have a higher chance to have ovarian cyst problems, prone to have high risk to sinus infections 
-1	There was this time I thought I had somethign that I didnt have but I looked online and I found out that I dsont
-1	I honestly can just say that when i understand what a doctor says to me about my health or condition is the only knowledge I would have.
-1	I have been through a lot of medical prodedures, x-rays, ultrasounds, etc and this has definitely furthered my knowledge in knowing more about my diagnosis and what comes about with these procedures.
-1	my husband cut his nose on the glass in our  headboard during a night mare.It required a trip to the ER for X rays and stitches. 
-1	My grandmother has diabetes. I informed her on what diabetes was and I told her how she could get rid of it and the steps to take to get rid of it.   
-1	Participating in health care services gave me experience in health issues as to how to maintain balance in the body system 
1	I have had to care for my aunt who was diagnosed with cancer so I have had to learn how to decipher tests and understand the differences between treatment options.
1	Understanding that my mother's forgetfulness and confusion in the late afternoons/evenings is sundowners and is typical of someone with semile dementia
-1	personal experience to demonstrate my interests and strengths and to acquire the knowledge and ability to help those in need. Talk about my talent, skills, knowledge and highlight of my strengths
1	My daughter recently underwent surgery to correct a potentially serious health issue. I was able to explain to the assisting surgeon what my daughter's condition was, what the surgery entailed, and why it would correct the problem.
1	My wife had an ileastomy and started running a fever of 104 and became delirious. I kept telling staff 104 for my wife was the same as 105 for a normal person because her normal temp was 97. We finally found a red swollen spot in her incision, called in the surgeon, and he drained over a quart of pus from an abscess that had formed.   
-1	I just feel I can tell what my problem might be from the effects of what is wrong but some of the time Im wrong 
-1	when my mother in law had a serious stroke that almost took her life in just minutes she had a blockage
1	I know how to control my blood pressure and how to manipulate muscles to releave tension knots and spasms. Can also do minor spinal alignments on others. Have learned and still use techniques of spinal alignment on my own neck when it is needed. Can and do work out kinks and cramps in my own body when muscles ache.
1	I've had a lot of issues with stys lasting for several days or weeks at a time. Many  times I've woken up with an uncomfortable and sore Eye and I used a hot compress on It and I believe I prevented a stye from occurring on multiple occasions.
-1	My cousin was uninsured and couldn't get to the Dr, he was barreling a series of health concerns, he called me to inform me of the situation, and I told him what I thought was wrong with him. Several days later his condition worsened and he was forced to visit the hospital, when he did he was diagnosed, which East he same diagnosis I gave him.
-1	I was first diagnosed with connective tissue disease many years ago. Then I saw another rheumatologist who describes my condition as lupus. After that, a specialist said that I have RA. I have fairly thoroughly read up on auto immune diseases as these doctors looked at me over the years. 
-1	When I was in high school I took a class called medical careers for 1 year to help me prepare for a future in the medical field.
-1	have 2 terminal incurable but treatable conditions, some allergies and a manageable blood pressure problem, plus helped both parents and a number of friends understand their medical conditions, treatments and options as well as plenty of medical bills
-1	I don't feel I have a knowledge of health or medical issues. I do read and research online . I have a very basic knowledge 
1	Being overweight, you learn about the various  causes of weight gain or even weight loss from a sedentary lifestyle. 
-1	I really do not have knowledge of medical issues at all.  I absolutely in no way understand how this question is supppsed to be answered
-1	
-1	I gave cpr to a relative that had a heart attack a number of years ago. Recently I helped my aged mother find a new doctor and reported unusual symptoms whenever they appeared
-1	I was told that I have Diabetes type 2. I was subscribed a medication which helped lower my A1C. After taking this medication for 10 years and learning what to eat, my A1C was at 5.9 and dropping, so my doctor said to stop taking any more medication for my diabetes. I have kept my A1C at 5.6 since I stopped taking the medication.  .
-1	My husband was diagnosed with diabetes after a systemic strep infection destroyed his pancrease.  He was very ill while in the hospital, and I had to retain the inform that was discovered in the hospital and relay the info to him when he was clear headed.  
1	I am a lone non-smoker in a family of smokers; holding steadfast to never smoking has resulted in my current high level of health. Other than that, I am not sure what you're asking. An example would have been helpful.
-1	I have no idea. I don't have any knowledge of medical terms at all. I was raised as a Christian Scientist
1	Had a consistent burning in chest area after exercising for 10 minutes. A stress test indicated there might be some blockages which proved to be true. Had open-heart surgery to bypass.
-1	agreed to take a meication that caused a hole in my stomach which caused ulcurs and surgery.Will not be taking that drug again. 
1	I would have to say when my daughter was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes.  I knew the signs because my son had also been diagnosed with it a few years before her.  I knew what the symptoms were.  
-1	A friend called me one day. She was concerned because. Her husband had a wound that was red and swelling. I told her to take him to the doctor because he had and infection. He may need it drained and take antibiotics. 
-1	I have diabetes and take pills and insulin with each meal. I have to decide how much insulin to give myself, depending on what i am about to eat.
1	I woke up and could not hear in my left ear.  After many doctor visits and tests, I was diagnosed with an acoustic neuroma.  There were many options as to how to treat it.  I was able to research and discuss with my doctor to come up with the best option.  9 years later I am doing well.
1	I've never had any issues with understanding medical issues that have happened to myself or others in my family.  My familial health issues have ranged from heart attacks to high blood pressure to glaucoma, to Alzheimer's to cataracts to Parkinson's to various types of cancer.  
-1	Father has been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and siblings and I have been diagnosed with major depressive disorder, all take medications 
1	my mom was diagnosed with osteoarthritis and I took a look at her MRI reading to further explain to her what OA really meant
-1	working at a nursing home i take care of several health issues and learn a lot of health info i have to know certain ways to deal and take care of patients
-1	In my everyday life I experience multiple health issues.Coping with it everyday and maintaining good health is the key.
-1	I have only had a few cats because they have all lived 18 years because I did research when they had a medical problem  and by learning about pets I have also learned about my own medical problems
-1	Dad was older. Noticed his breathing was hard to do. Called 911 anyhow and found out he was in heart failure was hospitalized and made a full recovery because I went against his wishes. I was very haappy
1	I was able to identify my sickness by searching about the causes and symptoms on the web and I was glad that I knew it ahead of time before I went to te doctor.
-1	I had a very close friend that was choking on a piece of chicken breast while dining out.I way able to help by doing the manuiver
-1	My son has molluscum and I have looked up information about that on the internet and been able to come up with ways to help fight this condition.
1	I have had many medical issues from the time I was six months old, and was a licensed massage therapist which includes education in all aspects of the human body and anatomy & physiology.  I have extensive knowledge of health and medical issues.
-1	anytime my children get sick or hurt I need to use any amount of health or medical knowledge I have in order to care for them properly. I have to clean wounds, bandage, give medicine
-1	I can not remember an experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health of medical issues It is not something I generally think about 
-1	The little engine that could.  I think I can.  I think I can.  I think I can.  Choo! Choo!  I think I can.  I think I can.  I think I can.  Anyway, the power of the mind is really overwhelming at times to the good and the bad.  I know there were times when I thought all hope was gone and then wouldn't you know I found a purpose after all.  I think they call it the Department of Labor.  And also just being nice to somebody and making them feel welcome.  Like really just being a good person.  I find there are so many affiliated people that the first amendment is actually twisted to fit their preference.  There are definitely more then enough racist people in America.  Seriously how many are for the president?  Obesity is just the first sign of irresponsibility.  And then it goes the other way skinny people.  Oh my god such negative attitudes.  They really want whats worse for you.  I say there is always room for success.  Not according to these people.  Life to them is final destination.  I am still trying to figure what it is that the cops even do?  Law and order are essential.  Or try the other way and see what happens.  Either way life is a risk but more so if your a criminal.  I am a recovered drug addict, sex pervert and thief.  Rules are great I look forward to following them now.  
1	received a bad cut on my hand, needed to stop bleeding first, have stitches  put in to keep wound closed, use proper sterial methods to prevent infection, get tetnise shot. 
1	My doctor was attempting to treat me for poison ivy due to a rash that was spreading over my arms and face. I kept feeling worse and worse. I went to a different doctor and was hospitalized for kidney failure. I did not have poison ivy.  
1	RADIATION AND CHEMOTHERAPY SHOULD NOT BE USED TO TREAT CANCER. PURE OXYGEN THERAPY WILL ELIMINATE CANCER ALONG WITH A DIET THAT CONTAINS VITAMIN B-17.
1	My boyfriend is diabetic and when we go grocery shopping I often help him calculate carbs or calories just like in some of these exercises before we decide whether or not to buy certain things.
1	recent cataract surgery based on opthalmologist's recommendation. would not have done it without her advice. 
-1	I have not had an experience in my life that would require me to demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	I studied and now work in the healthcare field  .I am always learning more each day.  Never ending process,
-1	I do not know anything about health or medical issues I am about as knowledgeable as they come which to me means nothing so I do not have any knowledge at all 
-1	I cannot think of any at this time except for the fact that I must not eat more than 40-45 carbs per meal. I also learned that if I have only 20 carbs for breakfast, that does not mean I can have 60-65 for lunch. it doesn't work that way. You cannot save carbs for the next meal.
-1	old man was not eating and would just look out in space had to have help to bathe and take his med after three days took him to doctor and found out his sugar was high and the old man machine show he had normal sugar 
1	 well for instance today my husband had 9 teeth pulled out and he kept saying I have a blood clot hanging out of my gums. I told him a clot is a mass of blood. That he more likely had a hematoma which I don't think he had either but that would be more likely than a clot if it was hanging down
-1	Not much knowledge so I didy know much. Basic things yes, some of that I didn't know. I'm notvery interested either.
-1	Was having trouble breathing. Did some quick research and discovered that I must quit smoking and loose weight. After these are under control I should start exercising regularly 
-1	just by talking to my regular physician i feel more aware and willing to perform emergency medical attention to my child. 
-1	I dont have any experiences that have fully demonstrated that I have real knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	had a heart attach in my middle 40's the dr thought it was something else. but with the family history i knew it was my heart
1	I once was certain that I did not have allergies. I went to the doctor to have a scratch test. I proved positive regarding multiple allergies thus I know much less about medical issues than I thought.
1	I have told several people they were probably low thyroid based on some answers to questions.  They were tested and I was correct.  I'm brilliant!
1	I was diagnosed with cancer at the base of my tongue. Listening to my doctors about the different courses of action available helped me become more knowledgeable 
-1	I can not think of any thing to say to this question but I hate typing and this is too much typing and I took 3 yrs . of typing because my DAD said that all women should type and it give me a head ache if I have to type too much.
1	I have a strong knowledge of how to keep my body performing.  What I need to eat on a daily basis to keep my digestive system normal, the amount of protein, etc.
-1	reading materials and books that I find in the doctors office or the website web.med is good information.
-1	Hard to tell, really. We all develop a base of knowledge throughout life that pertains to health and wellbeing but i don't associate such knowledge as being remarkable.
-1	Growing up I've took care of both of my grandmothers who had serious illnesses. I had to learn at an early age what medications were what and how they helped or effected my grandmother's lives. I had to make sure that I was their health advocate in all situations because sometimes doctors don't pay attention to a health issue or what medicine they perscribe
-1	never did i have anything like this to descibe so do not have an answer for this questionnothing but maybe a cold or flu knew what to do for the most part
-1	I have had a diabetic father for my whole life so I know all about high and low blood sugars as well as insulin injections.
-1	When I was urinating and I felt a burning pain I knew I had a urinery track infection so I went to my doctor he took some test and I was right he prescribed antibiotics and I got better in a week
-1	we had great health insurance until obamacare and now they are trying to fix it and democrats will not let them. we will use our health insurance once it is cost effective for use. no reason to find out you have something wrong with you if you can not affored to be treated for it.
-1	from what I have read on the internet about the BPH that I have and what the Doctor has told me about it, it looks like to me that my complete change of life style is the best way to correct this problem
1	After increasing my exercise regimen, my shoulder started to hurt (like a dull pain and heat) during and after exercising. I took 2 weeks off working out and it got a bit better and then worse again as I started working out again. I understood this meant it was most likely tendonitis so I went to my PCP to get a referral for PT so i can increase the strength of hte muscles around the tendon.
-1	I'm not really sure.My mother and husband have diabetes so I know a little about that.I have high blood pressure as does my husband and mother so i'm a little knowledgeable about that.
-1	I had to have a quad-drupple bypass that put me in the hospital for four days. If I hadnt gone in when I felt hugh pain in my chest, I could have died
-1	I'm healthy and I have no problem with my health far as I know. There is nothing wrong with me. I have no medical issues
-1	I am a retired Nurse not a mathmatation, so yes I am aware of medical/ health issues and less on grade school word problems.
-1	"Had a blockage of 3 arteries to my aorta, Dr.""s wanted to keep me in hospital for 3 months to do a triple by pass. Knowing my chances were better to continue activities until a spot opened for my surgery, I signed myself out AMA. Went to surgery when a spot opened and have been OK since."
-1	alot of being thirsty and having to go to bathroom,being tiree alot .when to doctor have blood work done and found out i have diebetes.
1	I have injured myself, through walking, hurt my ankle and foot. Had to get home, take ibuprofen for an antiinflammatory, wrap the foot with a wrap, not too tight, but firm, and then seeing as that provides a cloth layer, put ice against it to help any swelling go down.
1	Reading articles online about certain medical issues such as diabetes along with understanding some biological systems such as the immune system.
1	It is not so much my knowledge of health or medical issues that serves me well, it is my schooling background. Having a strong foundation in mathematics teaches you problem solving skills, being able to assess a situation, maintain clarity identifying relevant information, and systematically arriving at the correct solution. I have found these skills transgress to other aspects of life.
-1	My husband has been diagnosed with afib, I knew 165 beats per minute was way fast at the same time his blood pressure was low something with his heart was way wrong. Also a younger sister dropping weight struggling to breathe I knew it had to be lung cancer, tried to prepare her for that.
-1	I had elevated serum calcium, elevated PTH levels and low vitamin D levels. My reading suggested primary hyperparathyroidism and I discussed this with my doctor and requested additional testing, which was done and did show that I had had this problem. It was surgically corrected.
1	My husband dies of kidney cancer. I became very familiar with the progression of that type of cancer, the symptoms, the treatments.
-1	I have been visually impaired all my life so I know more than the average person about the eye and how it works.
-1	I have been in charge of my health and the health and safety of my family.  People also come to me when they struggle to understand. 
-1	My husband wad letheric and his back hurt and he also had no appetite.  I suggested he be checked for lung cancer.  He was found to have cancer.
-1	I had surgery on my right knee to remove floating cartilage .I understood why it would not cause anything other than the 3 scars. 
-1	I recently had some pain in my upper right quadrant of my abdomen. I was pretty confident that it was gallstones. But because of the severe pain I was in I went to the ER and sure enough that is what it was, They prescribed pain pills and scheduled me for surgery,
1	My wife fell during the night and a very large mirror slammed on her head, and pushed her to the floor.  I kept her up for three hours, checking her pupil dilation every half hour.  When she contacted the doctor several days later, she said that we had done everything right.
1	I have worked in a pharmacy for 18 years and have had to deal with numerous health issues at work.  was a regular visitor at emergency rooms with my children and their problems
-1	I have Gerd and as such done extensive research.  Even with that I am continually learning something new.
-1	I have CKD,IBS,RLS,GERD,Sinusitis,Angina,and,I am on dialysis,now.So I see drs at least 1-2 times a month
1	I am taking care of my mother who has a history of blood clots and Hypertension and my husband has diabetes. I have Lupus. 
1	Needed a hip replacement and was told the Dr. would do the Posterior Approach.  Upon doing research, I found that the Anterior Approach was far better for me and my recovery.  So my search began for an Ortho who did the Anterior Approach which was not available in my town/hospital as it requires a special table in the OR. My recovery today is 100% and others I know who had the posterior done are still limited in their activities or still have pain.
1	I have worked as a CNA in the past and have seen many health isssues handled both for the good and bad and been ignore by nurses and even doctors when I mentioned an issue a pstient was having that should have been addresssed before it got worse
-1	I HAD AN ENLARGED PROSTATE AND IT WAS RECOMMENDED THAT I HAVE TURP SURGERY SO I LOOKED IT UP ON GOOGL TO SEE WHAT WAS INVOLVED AND SIDE EFFECTS SO I COULD QUESTION MY UROLOGIST ABOUT IT WITHOUT SENDING STUPID.  I ASKED MY CARDIOLOGIST ABOUT THE RESULTS OF MY HEART CATH AND WHAT NEEDED TO BE DONE AND HE EXPLAINED WHAT NEEDED TO BE DONE AND BY WHOM AND I ASKED HIM THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HIMSELF AND AN INTERVENTIAL CARDIOLOGIST AND HE EXPLAINED IT TO ME.
1	"My mom asked me about a strange bump, knot on the palm of her hand. The first thing that popped into my head was ""trigger finger."" After a visit to her doctor, he confirmed that's what it appeared to be. "
-1	medical tests reported uterine cancer, onologist/surgeon explained results and her suggested approach, chose approach, follows directions for prep, and recovery procedures, experience positive outcome and appropriate healing
1	I can't recall any at this moment. Ian not sure if amI am understanding the question properly. I am at a loss for words.
1	I broke two bones in my hand. The doc showed me the fractures on the x-ray and we watched the healing process over 8 weeks and three additional x-rays.
-1	I would visit my friend who is now deceased and help her with the medications she needed to take.  Even with my own health, I do a lot more research, eat healthier, exercise, and drink plenty of water.
-1	well about a year and a half ago, i had an experience where the ambulance was called i thought i was losing my breath, but after talking to the doctor in the er, and getting the right amount of information i figured out it was probably just a panic attack, and the doctor agreed with me.
1	I have epilepsy. I have to pay attention to my health. I also have family health history { diabetes, melanoma, hart disease } I keep track of my own health and look for advancements in my family history plus possible cures.
-1	I had a tubal pregnancy and I was pretty well-versed on the symptoms and the causes. The information i did find however, was very different then the symptoms I had.
-1	I have experienced not for me but family members health issues. I concentrated on learning as much as possible on those conditions and there treatments
-1	An experience where I demonstrated knowledge of health is when my boyfriend who was 21 at time was diagnosed with diabetes. I was able to help him with insulin and help keep him on a strict diet .
-1	A experience that demonstrated health knowledge would be when i took care of a transplant patient to get his fever down, i ran the air, did everything the doctor told me too and used  cold ice.
-1	I was noticing heavy urination and strong thirst also noticed that vision was blurry and according to my knowledge I knew that these were clear signs of diabetes 
-1	My dad had a mole on his back, it didn't look normal, his doctor said it was fine.  My mom and I insisted it wasn't right.  The doctor biopsied it and it was in fact melanoma.  Had the doctor not listened to us who knows what would have happened.
-1	the doctor wanted to put me on a drug and i found out before i took it that it was not compatible at all with another medication and could cause me serious problems
-1	I've been around several people who are diabetic. When my Son in law started acting strange, losing he balance, sluring his words and being dizzy, I told him it was probably his blood sugar was low. Fixed him orange juice with added sugar, fixed him right up
-1	I havent had that experience before and so i cant describe what it would be its great and fulfilling
-1	I read alot of information on different medical problems that might require That I might ask a doctor about
-1	That I could run 1 mile and a half, without stopping. Yes, I was tired after the run, but I still maintained my health, afterwards.
-1	When my son was born he had a heart murmur and I researched and found all that I could about the murmur its self all the medical care and education I needed 
-1	I know about knee pain due to having had a broken patela.  I know about diabetes and high blood pressure due to my mother having both issues and having to care for her and help her with her medications.
-1	At my age, this could be quite a few things. I have osteoarthritis.  There is no cure and very few treatments. I take an Advil before bed to help with any pain, so I can sleep well. 
1	Experienced periodic problems with vertigo. After one severe attack did some research and learned about a condition called Meniere's Disease. My belief that I had this condition was confirmed by a doctor who was able to put me on a medication that had controlled this condition. 
1	I have had numerous relatives experience fatal symptoms which led to death.  In most circumstances I was aware of what was happening.
1	Had a CAT scan which showed nodules. This could be caused mainly by three things. I now have enough information about nodules
-1	Having the brach analysis done. Knowing that if I'm positive I need to take action immediately for precautions to stop breast cancer.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was the decision to make the choice not to take an injection.  I have pills I take and I take them on a regular basis and I have no problem taking them.  I eat and exercise properly as well as take medications prescribed by my physician and others if needed.  I feel an injection would hurt me more than help me because if I had bad side effects I would have to wait for the injection to get out of my body.
-1	I had bunion surgery. I  learned what they where going to do and watched videos of the procedure. I knew after the surgery what to expect.
-1	I got conjunctivits from a preschooler that I taught.  I saw the doctor and knew that I would need eye drops to cure the disease.  What i did not know was that I was allergic to the drops that I was prescribed and found out that i was allergic to sulfur.
-1	Taking care of my mother in Colorado after a stroke caused by a blood clot,that may have or not caused by the high altitude.
1	I experienced rolling abdominal pains. By the location and severity i diagnosed appendicitis and was correct. I also experienced severe chest pains and knew i was heart related. I was correct in being diagnosed with arterial blockage
1	Not sure what you mean? I used basic skills to determine my answers to simple math questions - I think I got them all correct.
-1	Diagnosed with acid reflux because when I eat bile keeps belching up.  I know that certain foods I eat will cause this to happen more than others so I must every day take my medicine so I don't get open sores in my esophagus.
-1	When I had hip replacement surgery, I went online after talking to my doctor and watched videos of the actual surgeries.  This was very helpful in my making the decision to have the surgery or not and what to expect during and after surgery.
1	It's think most of my knowledge about  and medical,issues came from dealing with my parents' medical problems.
-1	Telling a friend to be retested for hiv knowledge of mistakes made in veterans hospital. Contamination of test give wrong outcome
1	Researching, consulting with my doctor, and making a decision on my treatment for prostate cancer when it was first diagnosed
-1	At this time I can't really think of anything. The only thing of is when my son jumped off the porch just after his dad had just finished mowing. He landed on something and it went through his shoe and into his foot. I took him to the ER and they were going to try and get it out. Well I know they do xrays through a splint so they wouldn't see the stick in his foot.
1	When my nephew was suffering from an eye injury, the er doctor recommended a band aid without running an mri. the mri showed a fracture that the doctor would not have caught without the mri
-1	I have a friend who has high blood pressure and diabetes and I wanted to inform myself of the causes and risks for my age group  
1	Many years ago, I worked in a hospital for 5 years and took minutes at various medical meetings.  So my understanding of some medical issues were higher that previously.  A friend was diagnosed with breast cancer.  I knew that if it metastasized, it would likely go to the lungs, brain and bones and it did in a very short period of time.
-1	i no nothing about the medical field  other wise i would be a nurse or a doctor i can not say anything more than  that
-1	One time, I passer out and hit my head while at work. Later on, I was told that I had syncope. I had knowledge of this issue and knew how to effectively treat it to prevent it from happening again. 
1	My parents are both nurses so they've informed me about reading nutritional labels and exercising and all that
1	I was told by my doctor that I have high cholesterol. He told me that I would have to cut out a number of thinks that I normally eat or go on a cholesterol pill. I tried not going on the pill and the next visit my cholesterol was the same. My doctor said that he was on the pill and I needed to go on it, so I went on the cholesterol pill.
-1	I can't think of any for myself.My mother had thyroid and breast cancer in her lifetime and I think we all learned some from that.
1	Recently I noticed that my husband was quite a bit thirstier than normal, was urinating more frequently and seemed overall fatigued.  I suggested that since his Mother had been a Type II diabetic he may want to discuss these symptoms with his primary care physician. Sure enough the tests came back, happily, pre-diabetic and he has now made some lifestyle changes that should help lower his risk and potentially keep him off of Metformin, and eventually insulin.
1	When I regularly consumed fiber supplement and took calcium supplement to aid in the prevention of colon cancer, which runs on the male side of my family. I believe this helped me avoid such cancer.
1	When I changed from employer provided health insurance to Medicare, I was able to switch back to a combination of drugs to help control my blood sugar levels. My former coverage wouldn't pay for both Metformin & Januvia, but Medicare will.
1	I have had open-heart surgeries so I can follow doctor's instructions.  I also know to ask questions if I do not feel comfortable with the information given to me.
-1	i have worked in a medical field for 20 years  I have seen heart attacks I have seen diabetics sugar dropped.  I pretty well know what to do on a lot of stuff.  There are a lot of things to that I would not have a clue in what to do.
-1	I am in the UNITED STATES ARMY. I have 2 1/2 years of experience. I will be retiring from my career. I have seen a lot of things that would make a grown man cry. 
-1	My sister had an attack of appendices and we called 911,she was amitted to the hospital and the appendix burst and the doctors had to keep my sister i n the hospital till the infection was cleared up.
-1	I was told to do research on endometriosis and i was able to do the research and understand to a certain extent the information i read.
-1	I have polycystic kidneys and liver and I talk to my doctor about my issue and ask him about what I need. I know when I have an infection in my kidneys before the test shows positive. 
-1	My experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my father was dying of cancer.  I realized how precious life really was and that you cannot do anything for them.
1	Psychiatrist attempted to diagnose me with seasonal depression. I told them that they were wrong and that my symptoms are more indicative of bipolar disorder. I was correct.
-1	I demonstrate knowledge of health with my kids all the time. Especially if they are sick and not feeling well, I generally know what to look for and how to help get them better, and if I can't we go to the doctors.
-1	I worked at a Primary Care Physician's office so I am somewhat familiar with some health and medical issues.
1	When my husband was in the hospital and was ordered to a telemetry ward a mistake was made and he was placed on a normal ward. Because I know what the orders where I was able to get him put in the correct unit. 
-1	My sister was recently diagnosed with brain cancer, although they removed the cancer (they think completely) she is still at risk and is currently under treatment. I fully understand what the treatment is and what she is experiencing.
-1	I have food allergies and i knkw way more than the doctor thay are uneducated and lazy they dont want to take the time to learn
-1	I can not think of an event where I had to display any of the medical information I have obtained. I just try to research when information is presented so I can be knowledgeable the 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of a health issue was when I was diagnosed with migraines. I was knowledgable about causes and treatment options
-1	I lost my hearing due to spinal meningitis at 18 months old. I'm at risk of cardiovascular issues with my grandmother having a stroke and my homozygous MTHFR gene mutation that causes blood clots.
-1	having a grandparent who had diabetes was very hard I had to made sure she gets her insulin shots and make sure eat
-1	The only experience in life that I have had with knowledge of health or medical issues is from going to the doctor myself or with someone else.
-1	my dression at 12 and my pectus reconsution suergy plus a whole lotta of pills for my schiophreniza and I took a lot of pills too
-1	I have an autoimmune disease. When I meet with a new doctor, I have to explain to them all about my illness, and what I do to stay healthy. This includes diet, exercise, vitamins, and herbal supplementation. 
1	I'm actually not really sure I can think of anything at this time. I luckily haven't had many health concerns.
1	During my freshman year of college, I had to find treatment for my depression and anxiety to I visited a therapist who referred me to a psychiatrist and I learned about mental health treatment. I also took an 8 week course about Youth mental Health First Aid.
1	Several years ago my boss and I were visiting in his office and he said he had gotten his results from his last blood work. I asked since he was over 55 if they checked his PSA level. He thought for awhile and said well if they did they never gave him any results. I stressed he needed to call and see. Two days later he got a new blood test taken and a week later he was in MD Anderson in Houston for thorough Prostate exam. He is now cancer free for over 6 years.
-1	When my daughter kept complaining of stomach pain and the er did blood tests and sent her home I looked at her  test results and it looked like she was backed up I called our doctor and got a second opinion
-1	I can't think of any right now, and I probably wouldn't tell you any way.  Why am I doing math word problems?  Is this a survey about healthcare or math?
-1	I really don't know what experiences to list.  But each time something has happened, I've asked many questions and tried to get a better understanding and educate myself.
-1	We recently had pink eye and I knew before I went to the doctor that it was pink eye and I needed the drops to clear it up.
-1	2 broken fingers, left distil bicepTendon Rupture, 2 hernias, neck fusion, surgery on my left arm, I have been out of work for over 6-1/2 years, lost pension, annuity, insurance as well
-1	A few years ago, I could barely walk.  I went to the free clinic in town.  They were unable to help me - I was beyond their scope of help to offer - so they referred me to a local clinic and set me up to get medi-cal, the local medicaid.  I was told that I needed the joints in both hips replace so that process began.  After the second hip replacement, it soon became infected so I was back for another operation.  The surgeon was one of the best and the room I was taken to was more industrial.  The terms and drugs I was given were really something and often confusing.  This really isn't in my wheelhouse!  I've had a few minor things happen since then though most of my issues are resolved now and I can walk again!
1	I really don't have a specific experience that I can recall. Either, I know about a medical condition or I don't.
-1	I used to be certified as a CNA and worked in a long care nursing facility. I also had nursing classes at a tech school earlier in life.
-1	Having high blood pressure and taking medicine daily and monitoring the pressure, watching you eat more fruit and vegetables 
1	obviously, as evidenced by the trouble i had with these questions, i am not as knowledgeable (or mathematically adept) as i thought.
-1	Catching when a doctor prescribed a drug that could have had a negative reaction with another drug I was already taking.
-1	 In high school I took a rotation class that goes into hospitals and shadows doctors. We also learn medical terminology an measurement. 
1	I took the risk of not inducing my son. He was actually born on time not late like I was told that I was. I learned that the tests they were wanting to do was likely causing stress on the baby so stopped doing them and the baby came healthy. 
-1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes and I was told I needed to exercise and change my eating habits so I could lower my blood sugar levels. Also that I would have to take medication to help lower it as well.
-1	i read webmd articles, buy books, ask medical people in my family to stay informed...they are a lot of help
-1	For about 40 years I was the care giver for my disabled Mother. She was very dependent on me. I took her to the hospital in July, 2007. I was of the opinion that she had a TIA. She was not the type to stand up for herself so I insisted that she be admitted to the hospital. She passed away 7 days later. I was positive that she needed help. 
-1	21 years ago, my husband was diagnosed with a form of head, neck and throat cancer stage 4. he was given a 5 year prognosis. As his advocate, I researched al phases of his care.
-1	ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO I WAS TOLD I HAD PROSTATE CANCER AFTER HAVING A BLOOD TEST. IHAD TESTS DONE AND ENDED UP HAVING RADIATION TRESTMENTS
1	My wife suffered from Multiple Sclerosis for seventeen years until her untimely death. She would frequently experience Grand Moll seizures which required me to lay her on her side, place a ruler in her mouth and make sure she did not swallow her tongue and choke.
1	When I went to school to be a CMA and graduated with a 4.0 GPA and on the deans list. Also when my pharmacist put the wrong medication in a pill bottle.
-1	have high blood pressure, afib, and arrhythmia , take 3 blood pressure and eqilis for my problem. Have cut caffeine and salt down to help.
-1	I have been very lucky to have not had any major or really any minor medical issues in my life.  Once I had a kidney infection and it was taken care of well.  I know now how to know if that comes back but so far no issues since.
-1	I do not have any experience with the health field, and no training. also only have knowledge of what I have gone through in my own life.
-1	I had strep throats and I had to go to the doctors. I got there and did a swab to see if I actually had it. The results came back and it turned out I had strep
1	I have had several surgeries -- two knee replacements and rotator cuff repair among them.  I studies the options carefully and asked my doctors many questions before the surgery.  I also was knowledgeable about the rehab involved  because I read up on it prior to surgery and during the months of rehab.
-1	I was told i had high blood pressure and put on meds. I had ran out of meds my my blood pressure was fine. I was then told i did not have it. I mived and the doctors told me it never goes away but did not put me back on anything for it.
-1	There have been loved ones in my life who were smokers, overweight and sedentary.  They suffered major cardiovascular health issues and shortened their lifespan.  I have learned from their poor life choices and am doing much better than they did.
-1	I began receiving numbness in my hands and feet. I went in to see why and was told come back if it gets worse. I then started having weakness in my larg muscle groups. I went back to Dr. and was again told it was nothing. I then was having paralyses in my legs a arms which prevented me from walking. The doctor said come back if it gets worse. My insurance changed so that I needed to go to another doctor. When he listened to my symtoms he sent me to a specialist who found I had CDPN. This was a serius illnes which coul result in death if not treated with chemo therapy. I did not receive proper care from the first Dr. I have had similar epesodes of ironic diseases that were not treated correctly because the primary Dr. did not send me to a specialist when I clearly Knew something major was wrong.
-1	Being in my physical therapy sessions made me feel that I can be proactive in my well being I have learned a lot
-1	i used to work as a credit analyst at a credit life and health insurance company.  I had to look at diagnosis and paid claims if they were not pre-existing illnesses
-1	having to clean up my kids bloody knee. i needed to get something to clean it up and see the cut and how deep it is. then get a band aid
-1	well i got to learn about blood clots when i had 1 and didn't know what it was.i'm blessed to have had symptoms and not to have died.i had a heavy feeling leg.i felt like i was falling no matter if i was standing, sitting or lying down.i felt like i couldn't get enough air, like i was breathing through a straw.my husband came home & i told him to get me to the hospital.he did thank God!
-1	I had endometriosis.  I researched and found out alot of information that I used. It helped for a while and then I eventually had to go to more extreme measures 
-1	my father was having issues with his heart, something wasn't right and the emergency room just sent his away.  I threw a bloody fit and he was taken to another hospital and a specialist seen him. He was air lifted to U of W to have a emergency specialized surgery that same night 
-1	I manage my child's egg allergy as well as my husbands asthma! I often have to assess them and give treatment accordingly.
1	I had chemo for 6 months following cancer surgery and was able to discuss it with my doctors and understand the information so that I never had any questions after discussing it with them.
-1	I was at work and I felt my left side go numb, I got dizzy and could not stand. I went to the hopital and had to have emergency heart surgery. I was mis diagnosed a few times prior to my big heart attack.
-1	I can't think of anything to write about. Have no idea what you want me to say as I can not think of anything at all. 
1	more than once I have been affected by sudden massive and very complex medical issues that required an entire new vocabulary and ability to comprehend difficult information
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of a medical issue was based on when I had uterine cancer.  A friend called me and told me her symptoms and I told her it sounded like she had the same thing and she did.
-1	I can't remember any right now. I guess I self-diagnosis myself and my family members too. I just don't trust doctors very much, sorry.
-1	i feel and dislocated my knee which tore up aterires and veins in my leg and resulted in above knee amputation
-1	My niece was sick. She had a fever and wouldnt eat. I told her mom she may have strep throat and she did
-1	This is most likely the worst survey I have ever taken. Surveys are supposed to be opinions and not a math tesdt. You should be ashamed of yourself!
-1	I was diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome.  I didn't know anything about what caused it.  The dr. didn't tell me anything about diet, so I did my own research and changed my diet, along with his reccommendations to take fiber That was 10 yr. ago and I now have it 95% under control.
-1	When I researched symptoms of anemia in high school and months later I was told to be just that. The internet was a great source for me to use at the time, and I also had relatives who were anemic which made the self diagnosis more believable 
-1	I have had to have a LP. To test my spine fluid. I was u sure of how this was done and or why. I soon learned. 
-1	dealing with treatment for cerebral palsy complicated by a back injury, has caused osteoarthritis and required awareness in daily activity, medication and what to take for particular problems, how to use opioids properly
1	I have always been interested in medical information.  I didn't go to school for anything in the medical field, but I feel like I have a pretty good understanding. 
-1	To keep myself updated and also have the latest things to stay healthy at a all the time pace.But it's up to the individual to keep up with their health before a negative matter not to becomes worse.
-1	I come from a medical family. I practice natural medicine. I must know chemistry, biology, symptoms, and treatment. I lived abroad for a decade, and the doctors would wait for me to tell them what I needed. They were next to useless. I once dislocated my shoulder, popped it back into place by myself, bound it up against my chest and took anti inflammatory meds to help with the pain since I am highly allergic to pain meds. When I went to the doctor, they didn't even suggest I go for an x-ray, just said 'well, it looks like you did all the right things'. I now have severe arthritis in my shoulder, and torn ligaments in my rotator cuff. If they had sent me for an x-ray, it could have been fixed at that time.   Now it is too late. 
-1	When my Mother recently fell in her home and she could not get up, we went there to help her. She told us that she had fallen a few days before that and had hurt her ribs. That fall is what made it hard for her to get up and when ever she moved she screamed with pain. At that point I knew not to move her and to call 911 for help. I was afraid if she had a broken rib that if we moved her we could make it worse or puncture a lung.
-1	My mom was in and out of the hospital with many things.  It made me more aware of medical terminology, and that it was necessary to know exactly what was wrong with her to try to beat it.
-1	i could care less about it I never trust drs they just out for money yes god is good i put my trust in the lord can I get an amen
-1	I have no experience in the field of medical issues and these questions are for mathematicians not retired people just trying to get a free gift card by accumulating points
1	i have gone to the doctors and hospitals numerous times. My sister is a registered nurse and i have taking courses in college for healthcare management.
1	I work in healthcare and I have also had a few medical conditions in the past for which I had to have surgery for. 
-1	When I was 43 I had a stroke. I knew I was having one because I diagnosed myself using the F.A.S.T. test and I was correct. I got to the hospital on time to save myself with very minimal damage. I had just seen an episode on a TV show where a woman was having a stroke and did the FAST test. If I didnt just see that show, I might not be alive.
1	I smoked cigarettes for a number of years, but quit when my children were young and information about health riskd associated with smoking became available.
-1	when i was told i had high cholesterol went out of my way to learn as much as i could and take medication for it
1	i have never had an experience in my life that demonstrated knowledge or health or medical issues outside a discussion with my doctor
-1	when I know varies medical metody, I learn about to better health for my body and some tips about food , exercise...
-1	I don't really have any knowledge of any particular health or medical issues other that what I am told by my doctor.
-1	alot of bad to worse causes of what could harm you and also kill you.from my knowledge of research alot of too much things can hurt you.
1	When my husband had prostate cancer, I real all the literature given to us so I could help him make a responsible, informed decision about what course of treatment to pursue.
1	I had to provide the Heimlich maneuver in the school cafeteria for a middle school student who was choking.
-1	I have been diagnosed with itp And had 5 months of treatments and had to solely had to trust and depend on the Drs.
1	Look, I have to see both a psychiatrist and a psychologist once a month and my GP every six months, not counting sick visits.  I hope I know what is going on with my own health, mental and physical.
-1	I know everything that a doctor tells me thats going on if i dont understand i asked my doctor or i look it up
1	I really have no such knowledge.  I am not trained in health issues or medical knowledge.  Cannot recall an experience that fits the criteria.
-1	I do not have very much knowledge related to health and medical issues. I work in healthcare, but it is an administrative role.
-1	I've had high blood pressure for most of my adult life. I e had to deal with taking medication to control that 
-1	A young man had a heart attack While waiting for the paramedics I performed cpr on him to keep him alive until they arrived.
-1	I have no experience. I do a lot of reading. Procedures my parents have had or have gone through helped.
-1	Finding out I needed a mammogram sooner than 40 years old because of a family history with breast cancer. 
-1	I'M not sure I know of an instant that demonstrates my knowledge of a medical issue.  At this point nothing comes to mind
-1	my husband had a psa done at the doctors office .  The result was abnormally high.  I knew that his chances of having prostate cancer was very high. I was right, he did and died 2 years later
-1	My dad had a kidney stone and wouldn't go to the doctor. My ex had just gone though it a few months before. My dad has ONE kidney. A week after I told him about the kidney stone he started to go into kidney failure.  He's ok now but the nurses and mom had me stay with him at the hospital. I did more for him than the nurses did. 
1	I think that I do know a lot more then the average person about many medical related things. I'm not saying I'm a doctor but I am saying I'm very smart 
-1	I had breast cancer.  I had two different health insurance companies. I needed to make sure I was sending the bills to both companies and learned about health care claims.
-1	Growing up frequently sick. Always trying to be in the best condition to prevent sickness and grow up healthy.
-1	Wel) people that i know get sick or i get sick i try to get to know as much as i can about the illness or condition
1	Honestly, my genetic makeup is a reason why I know so much about health issues. My blood disorder is one of those examples. 
-1	I am not a doctor. I do not have a degree in health or medicine. And I believe I am not that smart to become a doctor, so I don't have enough knowledge.
1	I once saved someone by doing the Heimlich maneuver. My health and medical knowledge extend to basic first aid. 
-1	Allergies thought it might of been from dog dander but wasn't so was glad it wasn't cause she sleeps with us
-1	I guess that would be when I had to do research for my brother in law who was diagnosed with having cancer.
1	 I've not faced any of these examples. So far so good. All I have had to do so far is read the documents and sign. I did, however, used to be employed as a Medical Receptionist at a plasma donation center. I was in charge of taking blood tests using a hematocrit that, after spun, revealed plasma protein levels. I payed the customers. I took their pulses and blood pressures. I read a series of questions that aided in determining whether or not a donor was suitable. 
-1	When my daughter was 7 she was hospitalized. The hospital refused to discharge her until she drank at least 16 oz of fluids on her own. I requested that they remove the IV in order for her to actually be thirsty enough to want to drink
-1	when my husband found out that je has diabets i called it before he even went to the doctors I called it even before the doctors said he did after seeing him once it took two different doctors to find out what was wrong with him but with all his sysmptons it was obvious
-1	I never really had any major medical issues which is good and I know about the lasted health issues so I know the basics
-1	My daughter is a nurse practionner and therefore keeps me abreast of situations that i need to keep my eyes open for.
-1	I had passed out from a infection in my stomach. My intestines was swollen and to find out I also had a blood clot in my vien on my overys 
-1	I have experience a lot in my life, I am going to tell you little about my experience. In my early stage I was diagnosed with thyroid disease which I am managing. I go for blood work almost every months which now make me to understand about blood work 
-1	I have been sick since I was 19 years old.  I am 59 now.  Ever time I have an added diagnosis, I check it out on my computer to better to understand it better.  I also go to WebMD.com.  Great place to go for information. My knowledge would be on the higher level.  I am proud to keep informed with all my medical problems.
-1	i  dont really  have  an  experience i  can  share in  depth...i   am  unsure  how to  answer this  question
-1	herniated a disc in my lower back about 25 years ago and was able to find and understand the symptoms and treatments for my ailment
-1	I had a pulled muscel in my back.  I knew I needed to do some excercise moderately to get back to know pain.
1	My sister had an unexplained persistent backache. She began to lose weight and she became jaundiced. I suggested she go to a doctor, jaundice and weight loss concerned me. Turns out she had pancreatic cancer, like our mom before us. (Unlike mom, she survived the treatment.) I am now hyper alert for signs that might indicate cancer. 
1	!i took a medical terminology class and knew most of the words that we learned in the class before I was even taught them. I am also able to understand a lot of terminology that's hearon medical dramas and can tell if the information is accurate or not. 
-1	I don't have a whole lot of knowledge about medical issues - I let my doctor figure this out because he is the one qualified to do so. He has the knowledge and the expertise to do this and I defer to him on a regular basis. HE is the doctor.
-1	My daughter had cancer. My mother and grandmother along with an aunt have/had diabetes for as long as I can recall. 
-1	I don't really remember any time at all.  I can only answer when I have a doctor appointment and what we are talking about at the time and if I understand it.
-1	Two years ago after getting my blood work my letter in the mail showed my cholesterol was extremely high & my blood glucose was elevated so I changed my diet & started exercising & 6 months later I got my cholesterol down half of what it was & my blood glucose was normal
-1	After being diagnosed with a medical issue and having to take a certain amount of medication so many times per day. 
-1	I was never good at math that is why I gave you zero's. I suppose if I wanted to learn more math I would go back to school. I do have 3 associates degrees, but not in math. Just business math, so I try not to give math too much attention. I was 52 out of 750 high school students so I am not completely stupid. I just hate math and will never like it. Hope I didn't mess up your survey too much.
-1	Only during medical class learning abbreviations that I recall and understanding their meaning. And taking a cpr class I learned a few things
1	I don't have a specific experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I just am able to understand whatever my doctor tells me.
-1	Having a to take a test for breast cancer and having to wait for the results to come back is something I would never want to experience again but now knowing I don't have it is good
-1	i have never actually had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of any health or medical issue.  
-1	I haven't had a chance to demonstrated me knowledge of health of medical issues I have never in my life had to do that. 
-1	My father had cancer several years ago and was treated with an experimental drug at that time.  He had a 5% survival rate with the treatment and 0% without it.  He did not survive.
-1	My past operations and hospital tests and in-patient as well as out-patient experiences and the knowledge I obtained from all of these.
1	I have hypothyroidism. I had a goiter when I was a child and was treated. I did not understand then what that treatment was but thinking it over and over and researching it I know more. After I miscarried I became hypothyroid and started medication. I now know I'd been hypothyroid since my treatment as a child. My medication is adjusted annually.
-1	I would say one of the things that gave me knowledge of some health or medical issues. Is my consistant health issues such as being diagnosed with Diabetes, High blood pressure, High cholesterol and most recently pulmonary hypertension of the lungs. Being in the hospital for 10 days and having test after test done and numerous doctors coming in to advise me of my medical situation and what needs to be done to improved my health. Along with follow up appointments to my primary physician and other specialist.
1	I can't think of one at the present because I am rarely sick therefore I can not remember any experience in my life right off.
1	I have worked in long term health care for many years.  I have been able to point out symptoms that have led to treatments that have saved lives.
-1	I may not be the strongest on math but I do tend to get the gist of the message in my day to day exposure to health and medical issues. It's not so much one experience as the pattern of my lifetime.
1	Most concern other people. My hubby has heart issues and diabetes. All my brothers have diabetes. My hubby had open heart and so did one brother. The most crucial time is 72 hours after surgery.  
-1	I had a major surgery last year and it made me really invest in my health and medical care, studying more, asking more questions, etc
-1	i'm not the smartest person in the world but I know the basics of medical issues pertaining to myself
-1	Was a shipboard medic during two tours in Nam.  While helping to provide day to day care to the ships crew (we had up to 4 doctor's aboard when we took wounded from the field on three occasions) while most of my training was on the job (I first went aboard to be assigned to the black gang, transfered to medical when we first left states for Western Pacific) learned skills the job.  Decided to go other directions when left service, but pretty well understand most medical termonoligy and procedures.. 
-1	An experience in life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I had my colectomy in 2003. I knew that I knew special anesthesia for the operation because of an allergy I have to certain anesthetics. After the colectomy was performed, I knew that I had ulcerative colitis not Crohn's as was initially diagnosed because UC runs in my family.
-1	My personal health situation,which is very good.I exercise regularly,eat right, and am abstinent.I live a very disciplined lifestyle. I have had no personal medical experiences. I learn well from the experiences of others.
1	When my father was sick he spent much time in the hospital and I had to learn what the doctors and nurses were talking about so I could talk to the professionals with some sort of knowledge. I could understand what they were talking about. 
1	When I was diagnosed with Paget's disease of the vulva, I understood the surgical procedure that the doctor would use to remove the tissue which was affected.  When he told me about a cream that had just become available, and that it was a chemo drug that had been helpful in controlling symptoms of my condition, I opted to try it.  My doctor fully explained the side effects, and how to deal with them.  I just call him if the meds start to bother me, and he changes the frequency of use of the cream.  I have gone from having surgery every 1 to 2 years, to having NO surgeries for the past 4 years.  
-1	i have had my gallbladder removed, my child has had their tonsils and aednoids removed. i have had 3 csections, my mom has had a hysterectomy. i learned about these thing thru the doctors
-1	Twenty one years ago I had a major stroke, the Doctor said I died on them 4 times that night, but I survived, he called me a miracle. I have had 2 heart attacks and 2 strokes. I am still here. I have no medical training but have been through enough to have some, a small bit of medical & health knowledge at least concerning my own issues. 
-1	Having children and being able to recognize illness and when a doctor visit is needed, what questions to ask at the clinic etc. 
-1	I do not have any medical knowledge or experience in the field of caring for people thus go to a regulated practice 
-1	I'm quite knowledgeable but not that great with math. I know a lot about healthy eating and exercising and how to watch for certain symptoms I get my flu shot plenty of rest and so on. This survey definitely not worth the time I spend on it
-1	My asthma I have to improve in it as well as my weight to get improve my health I have been trying to eat right 
1	I have extensive knowledge relating to perinatal occurrences, such as the possible long-terms effects of anoxia.
-1	My father had a stroke on the street in Springfield.  I was able to notice the symptoms right away and get him to the hospital very quickly.  The staff treated him immediately with appropriate drugs to minimize the effects of the stroke and he lived for many years without too much difficulty.
-1	On several occasions, to mention some common diseases of my children such as colds, flu, malaise, routine evaluations, and also with relatives
-1	I did not have any.  I am very up to date on everything and have this kind of a problem.  If I did I would have remembered and told you but I have not.l
1	I am able to blog responsibly on PLM and Between Us sites about Fibromyalgia after living with it for 7 years.I
1	I worked as a wilderness field guide and had to use wilderness first responder skills to assess and treat clients as the nearest doctor/hospital was often several hours away. 
-1	i was a full time caretaker of my husband who had been sick our whole marriage nad he passe away in oct 16
-1	My Mom was had a lot of illnesses, and I took care of her.  I learned a lot by doing that.  She had heart issues, and lung cancer.
-1	So there's my latest experience, my mom's,my baby brother's,  my younger brother's, and now my cousin's.
-1	I fell down stairs at the age of 62 and knew I injured my arm and shoulder.  I had to take immediately action and went to the emergency room for treatment.
1	I have Type 2 Diabetes and am limited to 45 carbohydrates per meal and 30 carbohydrates per snack.  I measure my oatmeal and almond milk and maple syrup every morning to make sure I do not exceed 45 carbohydrates.  I had to read the labels and figure it out for myself and measure.
-1	When I had an broken ankle. I understood what the doctor was telling me about the operation that he was going to perform in my ankle. 
1	I am always trying to gain new knowledge.  Not just health issues.  I try to learn something new every day/ 
-1	in march or april 2016 i was hospitalised i already knew i had congestive heart disease in the er  my sodium magnesium was very low then my heart rate was slow the next month i had to have a pacemaker in less than 30 minutes my heart rate went from 50 to 30
1	I don't know if I can recall anything that would meet the qualifications for this question. I don't know what else you want me to type here.
-1	I don't know if there's a particular experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues... I know an average amount I think, but I don't know if I've ever put that knowledge to use
-1	im very interested in the medical field im constaley reading up on the internet and books to learn more and more about peoples health
1	I'm an  avid reader and try to stay up with changes in the medical world.  My doctors are all able to explain things in laymen terms and never rush me out of the office and are available by phone if I remember something after I leave the office. I speak to friends and family that may have had similar issues.  I had my knee replaced and knew what to expect before the surgery, during and after.  My rehab was thought out in advance and the location of the center I chose was picked out in advance.  It made me very comfortable with my decision.
-1	I don't have a goof experience but I was born with a health problem and everyday I hurt but I'm working on it with my doctor
-1	I've never been able to really understand problems like these,they always had to explain things in more simple terms
-1	I don't know anything about it I go school and home and church my family don't tell me anything not even about period and they won't tell me about sex but my teacher told the class about sex and help diseases that will happen if you have unprotected sex 
-1	He demonstrate my knowledge in small villages, family environment and others in other than business trip
-1	When my daughter got sick I didn't run to the doctors Every time they got a cold or had a small fever I took a day to asses the problem to make sure it wa9somrhing that simple rest and hydration couldn't fix first
-1	The only reason I have a basic knowledge is because many years ago I used to work as a medical secretary and I learned alot on the field. 
-1	I always go to my primary doctor ever year to get a physical examination. I ask her to draw my blood and get a flu shoot 
1	recently did a test for colon cancer and they told me they found something and it could be cancer with a percentage being mistaken. It turns out it wasn't cancer
-1	I really can say is that the only time that I did have is when i had a appendices to where I was not feeling good/ 
-1	I weaned my father in law off of a long list of drugs which were not needed. I also was able to get off of 2 high blood pressure drugs for myself.
-1	I felt a lot of pain in my lower part of my body which my doctor told me to not eat so much meat and now I eat more veggies than meat
-1	I don't really have any other than when there is an emergency, stay calm and call the paramedics. Other than that I don't really know much.
-1	I had passed out when I was riding a segwa when I hit a bump and hit my head. I was a little dizzy and a paramedic wanted me to go to the hospital for a possible concussion I refused because I had no idea what hospital took my insurance he also took my pulse and heart rate had me wait until vitials where close to normal and I drove home with a head ache or so I thought. I work up the next morning and felt extremely lightheaded so I called off of work. The next thing I remember was when I came to 4 hours had past so I called my son to take me to the hospital because something was wrong.
1	During my last hospitalization, several times I asked relevant questions despite my reduced capacity. On at least one occasion, the nurse was surprised and didn't know the answer and had to ask the doctor.
1	Had 3 children, a wife with severe COPD who I cared for, several emergency situations related to accidents to friends and cared for them at the time of the accident until professional help could arrive.
-1	I'm not the greatest at math as you can tell. I have not experienced any medical issues soo far or  had to deal with health knowledge.
-1	My knowledge of my migraines and how to try to avoid them and how to treat them when they occur it is easier to avoid a migraine then to treat one
-1	I am finding it hard to recall, other than following my doctor's instructions on how to treat my conditions, i.e, taking my medications properly.
-1	Diagnosis of diabetese and what I needed to do for it's treatment.Diet, testing, organ involved(pancrease).The gradual increase of higher blood sugar readings, and then using insulin to better control. Then necessity to test more often.Noting how different foods react to my sugar levels along with my mental and physical activity acts on my sugar levels.
-1	I found out my son has hemophilia and I had to learn all about that . And I'm still learning about all the different things that come with it I was a mess in that hospital room when they told me that news . But now I teach people about hemophilia and all that comes with it I teach more of the youth though just to get them educated on it .
-1	I've been dieting and trying to eat healthy to lose weight and promote my health. I read packages to make sure I am meeting my requirements for vitamins while staying under for sodium.
1	I know that if I eat foods that are not healthy for me i will gain weight.Also, eating junk food in  the evening is very unhealthy. Therefore, if I want a snack in the evening, I will either either eat hot air popcorn or an apple.
-1	Prescription drugs with multiple serious side effects for someone with my illness, age, and weight. Multiple drugs working together and against each other. 
-1	I was playing softball when one of my teammates was hit in the head with the ball.  We layed him on the bench and applied ice to the swollen head to reduce the swelling and also gave him aspirin to further reduce the swelling
-1	I deal with bronchitis on a daily basis and take breathing treatments.. I learned that if one is missed it makes it harder to get your breathing back to where it is suppose to be.
-1	My daughter is pregnant and her visits to the doctor demonstrate my knowledge.  I have to explain to her what the doctor is talking about and ask questions whenever she doesn't.
1	i read a lot of trade pubs about mental and physical health and feel like i have a decent level of knowledge about healthcare issues
1	i work as a clinical research associate on phase 1 oncology clinical trials so i have knowledge of health and medical issues as phase 1 deals with a lot of side effects and safety of the patients
-1	The day my daughter broke both bones in her right wrist clean through. She was in a cast for weeks. Dealt with a lot of doctors then
-1	My grandmothers and mother have both been in the hospital and I have had to interpret the medical papers and procedures they are talking about.
1	When I was about to begin my transition as a transgender woman I did online research about hormones and determined the exact dosage that the doctor prescribed.
-1	I LIVE MY LIFE WITH A VERY LITTLE HEALTHY PROBLEMS SO I CAN NOT FEEL LIKE OTHER PATIENTS THAT HAVE DISEASES IN THEIR LIFE
-1	My whole family have either had diabetes, heart trouble , high blood pressure. High choelestrol or cancer, just to name a few diseases 
1	I am a long-term diabetic who, unfortunately, has experienced many of the side-effects associated with this disease for many years. It just makes sense to me , that the more knowledge and information one has about their maladies and the treatments available for them, the more equipped they are to understand and follow the advice of their primary care physician.
-1	When my gallbladder went bad, I knew a few months before the doctors figured out that it was my gallbladder. 
-1	I feel off a roof an shattered both of my heels. The Dr told me he would have to go in surgically and put my heels back together with screws and plates. As we tyalked about my condition he was surprised at my knowledge of the human anatima
-1	I had a skin cancer lesion on my face and I had it removed. I took very good care of the wound and followed the doctors orders explicitly
-1	My lungs. I have it under control. The western doctors only wanted me to take antibiotics and other medications. I am doing GREAT without all that . Thanks to diet/herbs/vitamins/ exercise.
-1	Im not really sure.i know how to monitor blood pressure takecmy weight.i know how to take my temperature
1	I worked in a hospital during college.  Past that, my knowledge is derived from school curriculum and my personal health experience.
1	Having children gave me lots of opportunities to deal with medical issues.  Recognizing a case of blood poisoning that developed from an infected finger
-1	I knew something was wrong with me so i researched my symptoms and self diagnosed endometriosis and i do indeed have it
-1	having cancer. I had to learn all options and expierence chemo and radiation.  I had to learn all I could
-1	Husband has a stroke and due to another person in the family having the same thing happen I was able to recognize some of the symptoms and prevent it from being much worse.  
-1	i have had numerous family members battle diseases over the 50 years of my life with heart attacks, open heart surgeries, to cancer, melanoma, so it has hit so close to home
-1	None?I am tried of these questions.This is all I am writing . I am done.Done, done,done,done.Already done.
1	none that i can think of, guess i have led a sheltered life or just kept myself out of the medical system as much as i possibly could though i have given birth to two boys years ago and that was something that worked itself out as expected
-1	I look up the medical issues to gain wisdom and knowledge about the medical issues that I am interested in at this time in my life
-1	i went to school for phlebotomy, and learned quit a few things about the human body and what some medical issues are.
1	I do not have any experiences in my life that demonstrates any knowledge of health or medical issues.  Oh wait, I take that back.  A friend of mine had medical issues.  He went to many doctors that could or did not know what was wrong with him.  They basically sent him from doctor to doctor, test to test, and they were never able to give him a direct answer to what his problem was. When he ended up in the hospital, the doctors in the emergency room said that there was nothing wrong with him and sent him home.  The next time when the ambulance took him, the staff at the hospital was again going to send him back home, again stating that there was nothing wrong with him. The man had cancer and died a few days later.
1	Mammogram's yearly make me feel satisfied, that I have healthy breasts. Also giving myself frequent breast exams weekly, or when ever I shower, gives me the satisfaction that I am doing my own part to follow up should I find any lumps.
-1	There has not been anything in my life but knee pain.  It has almost been a year and I still have no idea what is wrong with my knee.  I might have a year or I might have arthritis, but it would be nice to know.
-1	Personal and Family experience. My dad is diabetic, mom has lupus, ex boyfriend had hatshimotos. Last year I had unexplained illness. I know my way around mayo clinic...
1	"I knew when I had to go in for gallbladder removal. I held off as long as possible, but knew when to go in. I also knew that my condition was not ""just gas"" as I had been previously told."
1	When my daughter busted her chin open on our tile floor and I had to patch her up and slow the bleeding, then rush her to the first emergency room that had lost power. Then proceed to the second emergency room that could help clean and stitch her chin.
-1	I have been out to eat and have watched someone administer the Heimleich procedure to someone choking.
1	I had to help my oldest son while he was having a grand mall seizure and I was told how to  place him and not to stick anything in his mouth because he could possibly choke and I was told the signs to watch for in case he did not show signs of the seizure stopping within a reasonable amount of time. I was the only one in my family who could stay calm enough to help my son during his seizures.
-1	I have not any serious experiences myself my parents have had some issues regarding their health just minor issues that requires some attention 
1	I fainted after getting a biopsy years ago. When the biopsy came back with the possibility of cancer, I decided that when I got the minor surgery required, I would be put to sleep. I also looked into the various options of surgery for my procedure on my own. 
1	I don't really believe that I have knowledge on health or medical issues, I leave that up to the professionals.
-1	When I had to research whether to immunize myself and child. When I had to learn about a family member's' health.
1	When my grandmother was in her early stages of Alzheimer's, my family knew that something was wrong -- and we assumed it was Alz. When we were in her kitchen, we had drawn a circle and asked her to fill in the numbers on the clock (1-12). What had wound up happening is that she had condensed 1-12 on one half of the clock (which correctly should have been 12-6), then wrote 13:00, 14:00, 15:00 etc. up the second half of the clock (6-12).
-1	My mother used to have epileptic seizures and there were times she would have one when it was just her and I at the house. She was also on medicine which I learned what each was for, what dosage she needed, what to do in an event of a seizure, etc.
-1	When I had a my last baby the I told the doctor I felt like I needed to push. The doctor said I still wasn't ready. Not even 60 seconds later my child was born.
-1	Was exhibiting upper back pain and indigestion for over a year with no diagnosis forthcoming from my Dr. I kept asking about possible gall bladder disease but he said I was too young(21) Ultimately I I became I'll enough to jaundice and end up in the ER where they tested me and I proved positive for gall stones and gall bladder disease
-1	lord i really do not know i do not pay it that much attention about stuff like that and never will i guess
-1	I have not experience anything in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues that I could talk about.
-1	I really can't think of a time where I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues. When a question about something comes up my wife and I do extensive research on the internet to learn all that we can.
-1	I needed to have my gall bladder removed at the age of 19. It turned out to be an emergency surgery after 2 months of waiting for a scheduling 
1	I studied and was certified as a CNA in high school so I have a pretty good understanding of the medical field.  There are new things all the time so I know I don't know everything.I was also in the hospital for 6 1/2 weeks and learned things about the medical field there.
-1	I had a hip replacement in 2014. I wondered if I would be able to walk normally afterward. With physical therapy I regained strength and balance. I completely forget now that I have a prosthetic hi, until I go through security at an airport.
-1	I have never demonstrated my medical knowledge. I haven't had a reason to do so in my lifetime .it's not an issue for me
-1	I worked for an NGO previously that worked with people that had type 2 diabetes. We often had open days where people would come in we would discuss with them what type 2 is and how we can help.
-1	Everything you eat need to have a balance.   Excercise is very important.  Avoid alcohol and smoking.
-1	The sociology of health and illness, alternatively the sociology of health and wellness, examines the interaction between society and health. The objective of this topic is to see how social life affects morbidity and mortality rate, and vice versa. This aspect of sociology differs from medical sociology in that this branch
-1	Can't think of an experience at this time.  Sorry. Can't think of one.  Sorry. I don't know of one.  
-1	when i thought i found a lump i was pretty sure i had cancer i was self diagonsing and in a state of panic kept postponing going to doctor but finally did
1	I was at a store and a girl was having what looked to me like an asthma attack. No one knew what to do so I asked if anyone had an inhaler no one did so said call an ambulance knowing that it wouldn't resolve on its own
-1	I can not give you a clue . im not that good with health care . i do not know where to being on that . because im not a doctor
-1	Well I knwk a lot of side effects so soemtimws I can tell waste hapeppening yo me .bitch don't tell me how much to write are you the damn boss of me loser
-1	i have had multiple surgeries and shared that with others to inform them that care is needed in all cases, don't avoid checkups and take all your medicine.
-1	when my friend had gotten a UTI and i went to the store and i knew exactly what she needed to have to make her feel better.
-1	I'm sorry I can't recall such a issue I know my husband has high cholesterol  I have some knowledge about changing his diet
-1	I've had a experience in my life that demonstrated health issues and it was abnormal finding and it was false
-1	I don't have any one experience in my life that can show my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have had two hernia repair surgeries, emergency galbladder surgery and burned in a house fire years ago.
-1	Probably when I changed my eating and began losing weight. I ate under certain amount of calories I eat healthy foods and limited my sugar and I started to see results and over several months I lost approximately 20 pounds . I want to do this from reading health magazines . So I know the differences between good and bad carbs for grants and refined grains etc.
1	I cannot think of a thing.  I have a good grasp of what is healthy and what is not but I don't know what you want as an answer for this.
-1	My daughter broke her arm and so I had to be well versed in the procedure for fixing the break and getting her back to square one. 
-1	I had to have a hysterectomy because I had fibroids on my uterus snd my doctoe did a good job other than th3 scars on my stomach 
-1	I have always been relatively healthy and haven't needed to assess my health needs much. I can pretty well tell what's going on with me and treat it accordingly. 
-1	My doctors nurse practitioners online health websites books magazines shows like doctor oz and family.
1	I have been living with health issues for many years now, so I have become a bit of an unofficial expert on my condition and am often a source of information for others.
-1	I do not have much knowledge about medical issues unless they're my own and still don't know much about it 
-1	Ive had breast cancer so i have quite a bit of experience with health and medical issues ive also had other procedures done
-1	In high school we needed to plan a diet which meant recording everything we ate and how much calories we burned. By doing so we were able to see how much caloric intake we actually accumulated according to a 2,000 calorie diet. Based upon that we could calculate how much weight could be lost as a result of dieting.
-1	When i had a skin irritation that wouldnt ho away.  I tried everything and knew it was probably exzema
-1	I was born with asthma, so I remember getting shots as a kid for it. As I aged, my condition improved, so I didn't use an inhaler (or shots) as frequently as I did before.
1	I have worked as a pediatric nurse and have also got an RN degree.  I have worked in the medical field for over 12 years.
-1	Had family member who had to get fibroids removed and a family member  who needed a knee replacement  plus a friend  who had diabetes and had to get a toe removed.
-1	Over the pass summer my stress levels were through the roof. When I went to the doctor I was told that I had extremely high pressure. It was then that I knew I had to become more positive in life and let things go. 
1	Many talks with nurses and high up healthcare providers have resulted in actual disagreement with results and numbers. I have been confirmed correct on more than a few occasions with research after the fact.
1	I think just having basic knowledge in life is helpful.  I have not had any serious medical conditions so that I am not sure how to respond.  I can read, write and do math.  
-1	Thankfully I have not had any experience for me to know this information.  I hope I never do.  If so, I would do some research and consult a doctor.
1	"My mother started to have shortness of breath, and I could hear ""rales"" in her breathing.  I thought it was pulmonary edema.  It was congestive heart failure but I was close"
-1	I have had to do a lot of research and studying on the conditions that I have, and conditions that relatives have, and I have relatives that are doctors and nurses and I discuss medical issues with them alot
-1	When I worked in a nursing facility and had to get vital signs of several residents each day.  Some of which needed blood pressure medicine if their pressure was too high. 
-1	One day my husband kept saying he had a terrible crick in his neck. He said it was on his right and it really hurt. He sat in his chair for about 2 hours. I was urging him to go to the er as I thought he was having a heart attack as I knew a man with the same symptoms and he went to the doctor. His was a heart attack. My husband refused. Next doctor visit they ran an ekg. It showed he had indeed had a heart attack. He ended up having a 4 by pass.  I should have made him go to er because heart surgeon said he was a ticking time bomb.
-1	I was my mother's caregiver for 10 months when she was suffering from severe osteoporosis and a pulmomary embolism.  I cared for my brother when he was dying of liver cancer; I took care of my sister-in-law when she had cancer of the pancreas and now I am taking care of my husband who was diagnosed with Alzheimer's.  I think I am more than knowledgeable of health and medical issues.
-1	i don't know a lot but more than most people because of my health problems over that past few years enough of the writtng questions
-1	I started taking first aid classes at age 9 when my father was chief of a volunteer fire department. I took same classes as the firemen for 7 years. 
1	Recommending a better diet and less alcohol consumption to a friend who had had colon cancer. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
1	Just recently I discovered an abnormal sore on my nose. From a previous experience I knew that I was prone to skin cancer, so I was quick to call my provider and get their opinion.
-1	My experience is I have cancer I've gone through a lot of medicines I've gone through a lot of treatments including radiation and chemotherapy I think I'm experienced as matter fact I know I'm experienced
-1	an experience i had was when my stepdad had a siezure, it was really scary but i had to try my best and be calm and help my mom
-1	I was born with a heart problem. They told my parents that I wouldn't live through the night. At 6 months I had spinal meningitis. I had continuous bronchitis as a child. As I got older I had a lot of sprained ankles and knees. At 18 I was diagnosed with ulcers. 3 of them. I feel like I have spent more time in a doctors office than I have out of one for the last 48 years.
-1	I have migraines and it's hard to get a relief for them and I've been through doctor to doctor and i can't find relief for them at all. 
-1	I can't think of anytime in my life where I was asked to demonstrate my knowledge of medical skills. Health wise, besides being asked of my own personal health, I can think of no occurrences where I had to demonstrate health knowledge. 
-1	i havent had any issues in my life to worry about   i research all i read about and then ask my dr ?s   to get my answers 
-1	when i was diagnosed with a sexually transmitted decease that was on the verge of being a life and death situation and i did;nt know how serious it was until i was told by the doctor.
-1	I have high cholesterol and high triglycerides. After meeting with my doctor quarterly and exercising, as well as eating better, I am able to lower these levels.
-1	I have not had any experience for myself, but I have helped my husband who has a lot of medical issues. 
-1	I knew I needed to go to the ER when my blood pressure was too high. I nurse once told me the results of the test in the hospital that I knew I did not have. I pointed that out and she realized she had the wrong chart. 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health is when I had nomophobia i had to use my knowledge of health to get better and not to get sick again
-1	I knew when my wife was suffering from what had not yet been diagnosed as shingles because of the symptoms she presented.
1	My sister's daughter was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes and my father had also suffered from this.  I was familiar with the treatments and lifestyle changes involved.
-1	I don't really have any experiences except whaT I have had myself. I know that sounds funny but I read a lot and follow medical news
1	I am able to explain to other people how to count carbohydrates.  I am able to explain to others how to dress wounds.  I can help others with medications.  I am able to read and understand about my and my husbands health care testing results.
1	My mother diagnosed with Hepatitis. She believes she contracted this before I was born through a blood transfusion.  I understood that this disease could be passed from child to mother during pregnancy, but the likelihood was low.  
-1	After carefully study and researching my health issues and seeking consultation. A physician preferred me to have a life threatening surgery than to balance my body specifically and naturally based on my ailments and chemistry. I was convinced  that i would not be having surgery and i have been fine ever since. I have been taking the right precautions. 
-1	I have degenerate disk disease that in the future I wil need a back fusion with hardware, I have been a candidate for awhile
-1	I have no clue. And to top it off I am horrible with math problems. I wait to be told the number not try and guess.
1	The only experience I had in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was helping a friend research the different methods of birth control.  I knew a lot about each method and its side effects and my own experience with the method I was currently taking at the time.
-1	i have very little knowledge regarding health and medical issues. i probably would have to have an extreme episode to know there is something wrong.
1	When I was diagnosed with Crohns disease. I read how bad it was and my chances of needing surgery. I foud through my own research , everybody is an individual. Many will be very ill and some it will be a minor inconvenience at times.
1	An acquaintance of mine told me her symptoms and I actually gave her the same diagnosis as her doctor did a month later.
1	I do not understand what this question wants me to state. I am 40 years old with 4 children. I have had 4 surgeries and 1 of my children has had 1 surgery. 2 of my 4 children are vaccine injured. 
-1	I have had to help clients understand doctor visits through work and also with taking my own child to the doctor over the years for various issues. 
-1	I followed my doctors advice when taking a prescription drug and I followed the directions on the label.
-1	I'm not sure I know how to answer this question. I once had severe abdominal pain not long after my mother had simiar pain and was diagnosed with colon cancer. I went to the emergency room where I wqs diagnosed with a kidney stone.
-1	Nothing since I am in perfect health and all my doctor metrics are within range of where they are supposed to be.
1	I was recommended for dental surgery this fall and followed the process for a referral and preliminary examination. I have been researching my various options and learning about the difference between basic vs. restorative work and what my insurance will cover.  
-1	Not much,yet still stats are just math not human fears if relay on just math ,math is adjustable,not a cure,in my worries math is not a solution ,curing insurance is.
1	Up until a few years ago when I became disabled, I was a home health aide. My job was to assist clients with ADL's and following their doctors orders. It has always been important to understand the orders in order to follow through with them. I demonstrated my abilities every single day in one way or another while taking care of my clients.
1	I grew up in a house with elderly grandparents then parents I was used to being around people who had illnesses.  due to that I have been able to share learned information with other people
-1	 Depression. I was diagnosed with once. I stayed with mom.  And was prescribed to take meds and also got high cholesterol pills once.
-1	taking care of my disabled husband doing his cathers keeping track of his intake and output plus his diet and sugar count and his medicicne
-1	I have had pnuemonia 2 times in one year so i know the systoms well and i know the rate of pain and systoms and where the infection is at in my lungs.
1	I really don't have an exact experience. Just by going to the MD and researching whatever I can remember that he said.
-1	My cousin was having gallbladder issues and I kept telling her to get checked out because our family has a history of needing them removed. She ignored me for multiple months and just had to have 4 surgeries in 1 due to how bad she let it get.
-1	I think I have not had a serious health experience, I am very fortunate to have good health and well-being with my family
1	I have no specific examples, however, I've never had to consult with a third party regarding understanding medical or health information.  I am able to understand healthcare issues well.
-1	I am not sure how to really answer this question, as I have not had any real health or medical problems thay I had to demonstrate and knowledge of
1	I was the caregiver for my Mother for the last seven years of her life, until she was 94. In that capacity, I was responsible for her medicines and health care. As her health Power of Attorney, I advised her on health care matters and sat in on all her physician's appointment. After each appointment, I made sure she understood the information. She was very hearing impaired. At the end of her life, she was unable to make her own decisions so I had to make decisions about her health care. I have also taught first aid, CPR and bloodborne pathogens for the American Red Cross.
-1	Receiving a Power Port and the benefits from it.  Looking up many medications, the side effects and benefits from them.  Completing new patient paperwork.
-1	I don't have any knowledge. I'm actually just using google and Siri to answer all of these questions. They were easy at first but then got hard 
-1	In 2003 I was put into a drug induced coma by an uninsured drunk driver. Since then,14 years later,I'm still under medical care regularly. I've been forced to understand my health and how to keep myself well as much as I can.
-1	the chance of having cancer is great because many of my family members have been diagnosed with cancer and some have passed away
1	I read a lot of the latest health related books. My most recent books read are by Anthony William, regarding the real cause of many mystery illnesses. He confirms that most illnesses are due to viruses, and eating fruits and vegetables is usually the answer.
-1	IBS having a lot of pain in my stomach not known what's wrong with you and worrying something else is wrong 
-1	I eat a balanced diet, take my meds as prescribed. Keep my overall weight at a normal level for my height and build. supersize regularly and keep happy.
-1	i researched a beta blocker side effects after years of taking drug and decided to wean myself off of the drug. i feel better going off the harmful medication. my dr agrees with me
-1	I am in the process of undergoing cataract surgery.  I understood the pre and post op instructions as well as the medication used and possible side effects
1	I have taken classes as an EMT, grew up in a family with people who work in hospitals, worked as a pharmacy technician, and am currently in school to be a pharmacist. 
-1	The time I correctly identified a malignant skin cancer on my left forearm. My doctor was pleased. He was glad.
-1	I went to the emergency room on a friday and i could not breath, well they decided i had COPD but when i went to my doctor i found out i had bronchitis.
-1	I can not recall any specific times that I have really had to use any knowledge about health or medical issues. The only time are when my daughter, whom is autistic, goes to the doctor.
-1	Every day of my life working as a nurse I demonstrate knowledge of health and medical issues. Don't know what more I can say
-1	Well it was a lot of fun i think i tested my health knowledge and enjoy this test although i think i have many faults.
1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes, I already knew a lot about it. My mother had diabetes all of her adult life. She couldn't see well enough to draw her insulin from the bottles. I have done it for her many times.
-1	I suffered a heart attack in november 2014,while already in the hospital having a left side hip replacement.I had already had the replacement,and was in the recovery room,when i had the heart attack.doctors told me that had i not already been in the hospital,i would not have survived,as i have one main artery closed,and  have a stint in another artery.
-1	When I went to the doctor, and I didn't even know I had some high blood pressure problems, or even heart problems, when they start to tell you, that you are in serious condition, you truly do not realize how serious it is, till it starts happening to u.
1	I told anatomy and physiology classes in college. They taught me how the body works. Therefore I know when mine or someone else's is not working correctly it needs fixing!
-1	i just try to eat right and try to do everything i can to do all that is right by what my doctor have said to do so maybe i can live a happy life
-1	I am able to fill out paper work for others with ease and swiftness. I always do this for my children and myself so i feel experienced in this.
-1	Many years ago I was told by my doctor that I had high blood pressure.  It didn't surprise me because others in my family did too - siblings.  So he prescribed an RX and now it is normal when checked.
-1	Living healthy life is the best because the experience of pain is nothing to write home about. And the response to treatment when using drugs is the best experience 
1	About 14 years ago, I was diagnosed with high cholesterol. I could not believe it because I hardly eat out, don't eat fried food or junk food, hardly eat sweets or fatty food. I asked my Dr. if my body could make it. She tested me and confirmed it and wanted to give me meds. I suggested oatmeal and exersice. After oatmeal and exercise for 30 days everything was cool. Now I eat oatmeal a few times a week and exercise regularly.
-1	I knew when I was pregnant just by the way my body felt. The Dr said it was too soon to tell but I was correct.
1	I read and analyze chart notes daily mostly pertaining to injuries from car accidents. An injured party was diagnosed with a concussion, but only had head aches and not other symptoms that are typical with a concussion, I analyzed based on conversations with her that she actually had headaches caused by a cervical strain sprain.
-1	I had sudden pain in my lower back and felt nauseated and got dizzy. I made it to the bed to lie down until my wife came home from work to take me to the hospital. It was a kidney stone which I thought it was because my relatives had hem once and explained what they felt like
-1	When I went to see an orthopedic surgeon for my back I had medical background that I could look at the xrays and could see my spine was bone on bone and understood what he told me needed to be done
-1	I like to have incuranse becuase it will help me and my family too especially my kids actually , Anyway health is very interesting
-1	I have had quite a few medical issues in my life and my family has a long list of medical problems. I try to keep myself informed about the latest in my medical profile.i am always learning something new.
1	My doctor said because of me being overweight that I would have high cholesterol. I had a blood test done and it showed that I was fine.
-1	To make sure that we know the different risks that can come with taking medication and doing different producures that can recognize different medical issues 
-1	I have asked my doctor about thyroid issues after reading a lot of information about it. The next time I went into the office we spoke about it and he ordered a blood test.
-1	I have a Asthma so anytime someone brings it up I have a lot of knowledge about t and can always help them out
-1	I had to have a breast biopsy done because I Had an abnormal mammogram and and unusual biopsy, so I had surgery to remove  the mass, it was benign.
-1	when i was told i had health problem I got more education about what i have. i have had good and bad days
-1	The loss of 2 sons within 3 years of each other. It is the worst feeling a parent can have. I have nothing else o say
1	i worked security in the er for ten lousy emotional weird years, strung out on mongoose and farrier anf wish for a world run by the trumps
1	I have no such experience in my life, so I can't tell you about it. I have absolutely nothing else to say here.
-1	When I had to have a c section, I did a lot of research about what that would mean for me and my body, as well as for my baby. I thought that I had a good idea about what would happen post surgery 
-1	My grandmother got diabetes at the age of 70 i learned everything i could about it went to classes and everything. When she went into a fiabetic coma i knew what it was and what to do
1	I had a pain in my side and when it persisted I felt there might be a problem.  I felt my side on the exterior I felt a buldge so I took my concern to the doctor and had him evaluate it.
-1	i had back pain went to the doctor and he said it was arthritas and nothin good be done i had a blood test and my psr was over 5 so i will be getting a biopsy for prostate cancer
-1	I recently had breast cancer and i had no faith in the medical department.  I was never told about nutruition. 
1	called 911 when it appeared someone was having a heart attack and notified appropriate personnel on site in the interim
-1	my family has a high rate of heart disease, so when my mother died at age 66 I knew I had to take care of health.
-1	I have always read or looked up any information on diseases. I'm still not 100% sure about a lot of medical treatments and causes and cures
1	Took my Mom to a Cardiologist and she wasn't telling him everything she needed to tell him.  He was going to prescribed warfarin, and I told the doctor she was very unsteady and had fallen several times and she shouldn't take it; I was right!
-1	I woke up sweating profusely, persecutors a very short time. I sent to Emergency and after an EKG and other tests was told I he a heart attack. I knew they was a serious event occurring
-1	My husband woke in middle of night with a rash. In the morning I checked the md website and decided he has shingles. Transported him by car to emergency room where he was diagnosed with shingles and given prescription for pain. 
1	I realized that at my age and former lifestyle and family history, the probability of a stroke or heart attack was a real issue the had to be investigated. After discussion with my PCP, he sent me to a cardiologist for a stress test and further examination. I passed the test but was told to reduce sodium intake to less than 1000mg/day and to take a baby aspirin daily.
-1	I have not had any experiences that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I always do searches n the web to find answers.
1	in 1985 I was in a motorcycle wreck in which I broke C6, C7 and T1 in my neck. I had surgery and was in a body cast for 8 months followed my months of therapy. This was my first experience, i have several others I could tell about too.
1	My father is disabled after a traumatic brain injury.  My entire life is about demonstrating health or medical issues.  Change a G-tube, did it.  Change a treache, did it.   Empty urinals, change diapers, give medication through G-Tube, I can tell you every thing you want to know about brain injury and the effects post coma.  Mood changes, check, anger, check, 
-1	I can't really think of an experience at this time, because when I found out that I have Lupus in 2015 I knew nothing at all about it. Before that I've basically gotten good results
1	I work at an animal hospital and have to relay medical information everyday to pet owners.  I've been there for 9 years and a lot of stuff has sunk into my brain to the point that i'm able to give advice to friends and family about some questions they may have about their pets.  As far as human medicine, I live a fairly healthy life and actually havent been to a doctor in several years.
-1	Relating effectively with patients is among the most valued skills of clinical care. As a beginning clinician, you will focus your energies on gathering information. At the same time, by using techniques that promote trust and convey respect, you will allow the patients story to unfold in its most full and detailed form. Establishing a supportive interaction helps the patient feel more at ease when sharing information and itself becomes the foundation for therapeutic clinicianpatient relationships. 4 Because illness can make patients feel discouraged and isolated, A feeling of connectedness with the doctor, of being deeply heard and understood, reduces this feeling of isolation and despair. This feeling is the very heart of healing
-1	When I had my heart attack. It was December 2003 and I had just finished my lunch and all of a sudden my throat felt like I had swallowed ice and it was stuck in my throat. Didn't realize I was having a heart attack. I had a stent put in December 2003 but it didn't work so had to go back in February 2004 and they decided to give me a triple bi-pass since one of my arteries was 90% clogged and the other ones partially. I found out that women have completely different symptoms then men.
-1	No school knowledge, just stuff pick up from my wife, who is very knowledgeable regarding the subject...she is a practicing psychotherapist, and a former RN...
1	When my daughter was breaking out in hives at 5 weeks old with minutes of nursing I realized she was allergic to something in my milk and that it was something I ate that caused it. I put myself on an elimination diet to determine the cause while waiting to see an allergist. I discovered the same major triggers as the docotor.
-1	none. Not a doctor or anyone that deals with health or medical issues, but have treated someone involved in an auto accident, cuts bruises and shock
-1	I filled out forms for my father. He's not healthy by far. You name it he has it so I administer his medicine so I need to know a lot
-1	I've had bladder cancer and I also am a diabetic, so both of these has helped me understand a little bit about medical issues
-1	I have blood tests and yearly mammograms.  I understand about false positives, and luckily have not had that experience.
-1	I really haven't had any medical conditions besides having high blood pressure which I'm maintaining at this very moment.
-1	I have very little healthcare knowledge. However the questions asked were need know and interesting to do further research
-1	About 5 years ago when I was diagnosed with AFIB, I knew nothing about the disease.  I spent a lot of time online educating myself about AFIB. 
-1	Husband has diabetics so I have tried to read everything I can on this to keep him as healthy as I can.
-1	I am not sure if I understand much about health and medical issues unless it it something simple like a common cold
-1	I have no knowledge of a lot things I do not know much medical things at all. I wish I did I only know the minimal of medical things 
-1	I have extreme severe glaucoma and I've had 4 laser and 3 implants in both of my eyes.  I have lost mostly all of my peripheral vision and my eye specialist is the doctor I have seen more than any other doctor in my lifetime  
-1	i my ,i have been lucky and been very health , just to have my gallbader out . but other then that been very heaith person .
-1	Laboratory results and x ray result if a person has high cholesterol or low cholesterol level. Understanding of the xray results too
1	I once had to treat someone for heat exhaustion, and recognized the symptoms (fast pulse, shakiness, dizziness, etc) and was able to bring that person back to normal by giving fluids, applying some cooling water, etc.
-1	I was pregnant with my son and I understood that having high blood pressure is very dangerous and that it can hurt the baby as well. 
-1	I don;t know a whole lot about medical issues, but I do a bit of research on my own. I do like to do certain things and knowing different things.
-1	When my aunt became ill and the doctors were testing her to find out why she had suddenly lost her eyesight and became disoriented my mother said it was because she had gotten AIDS from her friend was as homosexual. I had to convince her that my aunt could not contract AIDS without having blood contact and blindness was not a symptom of AIDS, which the doctors confirmed - she did not have AIDS.
-1	I have had a total hysterectomy, both knees replaced and my right hip replaced.... All in the past five years.
-1	My husband was experiencing heart failure.  His blood pressure was high and he had excessive swelling in his ankles and abdomen.  He also had difficulty in breathing as well as crackles in his lungs signifiying fluid.
-1	I took classes in college that taught me about health and medical issues and I learned a lot from those classes.
-1	After being diagnosed with heart failure I read up on the condition and realized that with the help of my doctor I needed to change my salt intake and amount of food I age.
-1	I suffered with gallbladder disease for a very long time, and it was only after I had researched it that it was addressed-after I became convinced it was the problem, I insisted on the necessary testing to diagnose it and was hospitalized immediately to have my gallbladder removed.
1	I teach a math for nurses class at a local community college as well as regular research in my own personal health and wellness.
-1	I have acid reflux related disease.  It makes me feel nauseated from time to time.  But I was informed dearly about this disease by my doctor.
-1	I have just had a ton of life experience. I listen to my friends, read medical articles and look on line.
1	I don't have an experience from my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.This isn't applicable to me.
-1	My math skills may be lacking but my brains not.  My husband died of dementia, which is not the same as Alzheimer. It's tough to be a care giver to someone you love and tougher to put them in hospice when they are dying.
-1	When I got really sick in 2007 and nobody knew what was wrong with me I lost 60 pounds in 3 months then they did blood work and found out I had SLE Lupus
-1	 Finding out that I have congestive heart failure has been tough because I had no knowledge of the disease beforehand.
-1	I had a heart attack and was told to quit smoking or riak another heart attack so I quit smoking that day.
1	I researched treatment options for a medical condition, and the physician agreed with my approach with the addition of complementary methods. 
-1	I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia in 2002. Since then I have done a significant amount of research on various remedies which are really helping me but I realize the importance of modern medicine. I have learned to use holistic and herbal treatments along with my prescription medicine.
-1	With my diabetes I learned about A1c and my average readings over a course of time and how to control them
1	When my sister fell from a tree and broke her back, I knew to tell people not to move her. Also, when my mom was bleeding before her hystercomy, I told her she should probably be taking iron.
1	I get the gist of it all but I am not a math genius! I use my common sense and have managed to not kill myself thus far. This is a survey not a IQ test!
-1	I need no knowledge of health and medical issues because I trust my doctor about everything including my health
-1	Was at work and my vision went blurry when to hospital and had test and was told had water on the brain
-1	I was in the Emergency dept for chest pain. I had a slightly elevate blood level that could indicate a blood clot. The resident wanted to do a CT, I understood enough about lab values to refuse the CT and decrease my exposure to radiation.
1	I am a nurse so i have the ability to demonstrate my knowledge of health care issues. you can count on me to be accurate
-1	I was diagnosed with Anemia and I understood what the condition was and why I had it. I understand that the body needs a certain amount of iron for our red blood cells for our bodies to function properly.
-1	I had a inflamed swelling on the second finger of my right hand. Usually it's a splinter, but I didn't see anything. Finally the side turned white and it was a holiday weekend. I could spend a couple of hours in the emergency room, or I could soak a needle in alcohol and lance it myself, which I did. All this grey pus came out, and I soaked it in alcohol. I kept an eye on it, squeezing any extra puss out, resoaking in alcohol and changing bandages. I looks fine now.
1	I was trained in combat first aid in the military. When stationed in California I assisted in delivering a child. The mother having gone into labor on the access road to the base in the early hours of the morning
-1	My granddaughter had some systemic swelling. Her mother took her to the dr and she was prescribed an allergy medication. After 3 days she continued to have swelling and I told her mother to return to the dr because I think he had made an incorrect diagnosis. He had, she saw a specialist and is currently on a life saving treatment
-1	I think I do okay with my knowledge of medical terms. This was a fun eye- opening experience. I appreciate this survey.
-1	Was taking certain medications and I had an allergic to something I soon realized that I need to either get medical care or take something to help myself.
-1	I assisted in helping a civilian from heat stroke during the heat of summer of 110 degrees. I've been informative to EMT people and knowledgeable about medical history of my family members 
-1	"I had trouble swallowing food sometimes, and hard food would get ""stuck"" and I would have to throw up to remove it. I researched it and it sounded like hiatal hernia. Turned out to be hiatal hernia."
-1	I was told by a doctor there was a good chance i had mononucleosis. I knew that with the symptoms i had that it wasnt strep throat and that the doctor was probably right.
1	My mother and maternal grandfather both died of heart disease. Because of this, I know that geneticly I'm at an increased risk of having heart related issues.
-1	I really can't think of any for myself.  My father was diagnosed with breast cancer years ago, so my family had to digest a great deal of medical terminology.
-1	I work hard to look up information  to help my mother in law with health issues.  I try to stay informed about issues she brings up so I can give her good advice. 
-1	I recently had bursitis of the shoulder. It was very painful and I did quite a bit of research online to determine why I had the condition and what I needed to do for it to heal. I also watched YouTube videos for physical therapy ideas. 
1	I am a blood donor.  My first time donating was about ten years ago.  Then, I had some ovarian cysts that caused me to become anemic.  I have since become more active and am back to donating again.  My vitals are in great shape!
1	I've more than once come upon an accident scene and had the presence of mind to prevent people from moving someone until EMTs could arrive and assess the situation; on one of those occasions, the person had snapped her ankle and her foot was hanging to the side yet someone wanted to help her stand.  As a mom, there have been more instances over the years than I can call to mind.
-1	I was recently diagnosed as having POTS. My symptoms of profuse sweating and dizziness when standing and then fainting are not caused by a problem with my heart. I have had an echo cardiogram and stress test which are perfectly normal.. However my problem is caused by a problem with my autonomic nervous system. 
1	I started taking a medication for frequent nighttime urination. One of the possible side effects was dizziness and the very first night that I had taken this medication I fell in my way to the bathroom. Fortunately  was uninjured but discontinued the RX and met with my doctor immediately to discuss alternatives.
-1	When I was outside working in my yard, I began to feel the early effects of a heat stoke. I made my way inside and drank a lot of cold water and sat in the shade in order to cool down.
-1	My husband developed many problems during the course of our marriage & I always took care of him.  When they put him in a rehab center after a fall, they were short on nurses, so I did what he needed - changed bandages, gave medication, dressed his wounds, etc.  I was commented on my efficiency & they were surprised that I was not a nurse. 
-1	I was a ifrefighter in the navy, and have performed cpr to save a couple poeples lives. Also  I have been Involed in a couple bad accidents and knew not to move because where the pain was and is probably why  I am still walking 
1	I had a torn Achilles' tendon which required surgery. I was explained the risks and benefits and the recuperation period involved before I signed the consent forms
-1	When I talked to my doctor about the different types of supplements and vitamins that are available and what is needed for someone of my age and fitness level.  He did not list calcium and I asked about it, because so far as I know, most women are deficient, but he said I was okay not to take it for now because I am active.  I won't need it until I'm over 50
-1	I was diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder and through testing I was able to determine the right dosage of medication. I figured out that 25mg under the dosage caused mood swings, fainting, and dizziness while 25mg over caused fatigue. These medical trials taught me to stay active about my health.
-1	I don't really have expierence with medical information so this was kind of hard for me to fill out accurately
-1	Read well about the disease I have to know the risks I run and what diet I can follow how to take the medicine as explained
1	A few years ago I had a very stressful co-worker who  made my life miserable.  I developed Atypical Facial Pain.  The initial sensations were weird, hard to describe and I didn't know what direction to go in.  Initially, I thought the sensations were related to allergies, a cold, tooth issue.  I remember calling my primaries office one day and when they ask what my issues were and I said that my face was numb.  The nurse rushed off the phone and said I want you to immediately call 911.  I'm like no ... I just need an apt today.  We recommend you get to the ER.  Having had the sensations for a while, I knew that it was not life threatening and need to start to find out the cause and how to treat my issues.
1	I had a devastating short term illness that caused me to learn a lot about the health care system . I dealt with lots of doctors 
-1	When was diagnosed with copd . There is a very low percentage of people who get it wthout never smoking . Well I'm one of then because I was exposed too some chemicals that give it to me.
-1	Its   more   of   a   mental  health   issue  with   me   but   also   have  physical   ailments  that  I   often   dismiss   because  I   really   don't   want   to   hear   a   bad  report   about   something
1	I was told that I had high cholesterol and was prescribed statins to lower my cholesterol.  I did some research and found out that diet and exercise can also lower cholesterol.  I changed my diet and began to exercise.  I lowered my cholesterol and was able to quit taking statins.
-1	When I was exercising and felt the soreness the next day. I knew it was DOMS because then the day after it got even worse which told me I worked myself out too hard and need to tone it down some.
-1	I had a stroke & had tests done & also I had cancer & had a hysteric done to get rid of the cancer. During all of this I looked up a lot of information on all of it.
1	I don't have much knowledge of health or medical issues except with the effects of the medical conditions that I already have. And I also Google search on the internet to look up medical information.
-1	my father as well as my father in law have both passed away from 2 different types of cancer, I was always with my father for his doctors appointments. I also have taken an online class for medical transcription. 
1	After my husband was diagnosed with basal cell carcinoma, I went online to get information about the MOHS surgery he was scheduled to have.  When meeting with the P.A for pre op counseling, I was able to ask questions that were pertinent to the surgery and to his recovery.
-1	When I was diagnosed with breast cancer I spoke with a few doctors before I felt comfortable deciding on the treatment I would take and the risks involved. FI looked at the percentage of different alternatives and decided which path to go
1	My sister's friend had an episode with his father where he didn't know what was wrong with him and couldn't move his left side. I asked him about the symptoms and let him know his dad most likely had a TIA and needed to go to the doctor.
-1	when I had the left side of my pututary gland remove and having how the operation will be held and the recovery length
-1	I dont know anything about health other than making sure my health is good and my kids health is good.
-1	Doctors diagnosed me with asthma but then I researched it and it didn't make any sense so I self diagnosed myself.
-1	When i first found out about my dieabets i did not know what to do but now my doctor has me at eazeno more worries
-1	When I was twelve years old, a drunk driver hit the car my mother was driving while I was in the backseat. I have very few memories of the accident, but I do faintly recall a serious but calming face as I was gently lifted out of the car. The paramedic held my hand as we traveled to the hospital. I was in the hospital for several weeks and that same paramedic came to visit me almost every day. During my stay, I also got to know the various doctors and nurses in the hospital on a personal level. I remember feeling anxiety about my condition, but not sadness or even fear. It seemed to me that those around me, particularly my family, 
1	I was told that I had gout.  I don't like taking medication.  I decided that rather than put poison in my body I would try the natural approach.  I used black cherry and celery seed to take care of the problem.
-1	On April 10th 2004 I woke up and went to take a shower to get ready for work.while taking a shower I started feeling extreme pain in the right side of my chest. It felt like a thousand needles sticking in my chest
-1	Nothing really sticks out in my mind. All I can say is that anytime I have seen a doctor and they gave me information that I already knew about and was easy to comprehend
-1	when i have virigo AND i did not know what is about.  i would havee to read it in a medical web site to better understand
-1	My friend having prostate cancer .  Me having cervical  cancer,  and working in the medical field for years!
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issue occurred: my partner was at the Dr.  He called asking about his prescriptions.  I told him what they were and each were for. He was flabbergasted.
-1	My aunt had breast cancer and I had to care for her. That was probably the hardest times ever. To see her go through that pain was horrible.
1	Several years ago I had chronic bronchitis. I had seen a doctor and treated it with medication more than once, but it persisted. Eventually I began coughing up rust colored sputum, running a fever and feeling generally ill. I knew that was not a symptom of brochitis, so I researched and foundthat it indicated an abcess in the lung. I went to the emergency room and told the nurse what I suspected, but she assured me that it was very unlikely and confidently told me I most likely had pnuemonia. After several hours of tests, it turned out that I did in fact have an abcess on my lung for which I was hospitalized and treated with heavy antibiotics for 6 days as well as a month more after being realeased.
-1	My mother all ways told me stay in shape in work out to stay fit and u will be healthy and u can live a long life
-1	12yrs ago I came in from work(i'm a local truckers that haul dirt and other thing) anyway icame in and when I got out of the truck I could hardly walk and felt very numb. Went straight to the clinic they though I had a heart attack but didn't. It took them 3mos. To find out it was my back.
1	My husband's father, his brother, and my husband all have a degree of alcoholism with the father having been the worst.  When my son was born, as soon as he was old enough to understand the perils of drinking, I explained how he was at risk of becoming an alcoholicm   They all are or were, unwilling to discuss their problems with foctors.  Now, I believe, my son, is traveling the same road but cannot get him to visit a doctor.
1	I have been working for nearly 30 years as a RN.  5 years as a bedside nurse and 25 years as a nurse case manager.  I float to every service in a busy university teaching hospital and have vast knowledge of many specialties.  I assisted with counseling my family on various medical issues they are having, such as when my brother in law had a TBI and needed extensive treatments and rehabilitation.  
-1	Three years ago I had a hysterectomy for a prolapsed uterus.  Many years ago in college I took a class where a nurse was the instructor and told us about a patient of hers that experienced the same thing.  Because of this I knew what was happening.
1	My doctor, knowing my list of prescribed medications and having gone over them with me during my appointment, prescribed me a new medication that could have had very serious adverse side effects, including death, due to a reaction with one of my other prescriptions. Thankfully I knew not to just take doctors at their word and did my research. I called and asked for a different medication. 
1	I have A-Fib, and it is controlled through diet / exercise. I keep up to date an all pertinent information and my GP is great, and my Cardiologist is a world famous MD at  UPMC in Pittsburgh
-1	I had divercius  . I had be hospital for two weeks I was in horibal  pain I couldn't move or anything . 
-1	When I experience indigestion on a regular basis I consulted my doctor who requested that I be tested to see if I have acid after it was determined that the cause was acid reflux I made the necessary changes to my diet.
-1	I am a registered dietitian and worked with patients on medical issues for over 35 years.  This gave me much knowledge of many medical issues and condititions.
-1	i go to the emergency rome and have worked in a field requiring basic medicaln training i cant believe that this survey is asking a detiled backgrnd question such as this 
-1	The way this question is worded does not give a concise direction for the desired way in which to answer the question. I have an extensive knowledge of medical and health issues.
-1	I am not sure what to type here because I have really not experienced this. I don't know how to answer this
-1	had  cancer behind my nose was treated with radeatuion and cemo all went preaty well tahat was back in 2010 know i a doing fine and well
-1	I cannot think of and experience in my life that I had a great deal of knowledge of a health or medical issue or problem.
1	I once got bit by a snake and told the doctor it was a snake bite. He thought it was an insect. Finally I brought the snake into the office and proved it to him.
-1	when I had a bruising problem and had to go into the hospital to get tests run and it was discovered that I had a condition that could be easily treated
-1	I received basic health classes during high school.  I also received information through classes in nutrition and health at college.
1	I had tuberculosis when I was about 25 years old. I learned a lot about being tested positive and actually having the progressed disease and therefore being contagious. My husband and 3 children tested positive but were not latent. I however was latent and contagious. We all had to take meds but will always test positive...etc..t learned a lo I lot that year about the disease. Thank God I live in this century.
-1	went to school for medical billing and coding and made straight A's on all my medical courses. Even in high school I made straight A's in Biology. Love learning about anything medical. I find it fascinating.
1	At one point, I was incorrectly diagnosed by a doctor, and actually found the correct diagnosis through my own research.
-1	Am experience in my life that demonstrated my health issues was when I was told that I had high cholesterol and I needed to start eating healthier and cut back on some of the foods that I eat to make sure that it is something that won't tomurn out to be a permanent thing
-1	When I had my children. I learned much about birth and child rearing through my doctor and reading about it.
-1	I took my bp medicines a few hours before a doctor appointment. My go was 147/84. I had taken my regular daily dosages. But I wanted a more normal reading and when I got to my appt. I took 1 more medicine. At my appt. my reading was 120/64. I knew what to do to get  more favorable reading.
-1	When I had back Surgery & developed complications  which was a very bad spinal leak after I had a Spinal Tap done I was in bed flat on my back for 2 weeks
-1	Because of swelling, stiffness, and pain in my fingers, wrists, ankles, and toes, I fully understood when the rheumatologist told me I suffer from rheumatoid arthritis.
1	When I was diagnosed with something, I asked the doctor questions, then I followed up my research by checking WebMD and other websites to see what I could do to help lessen my symptoms and ways of getting off of a prescription.
-1	family member had heart attack, knew to encourage daily walking, eating less meat and fat, more fish, vegtables etc.
1	After repeatedly receiving abnormal lab results that would correct after treatment for a little bit of a time.  After so many tries, I decided to get a second opinion.  I also had second opinions regarding a family member.  
1	I can't think of any one time, but I have been able to explain some medical terms or procedures to someone else based on the knowledge I have.
1	When my mom had cancer. I was at the hospital a lot with her, so I learned a lot about her condition. I got a certificate as a home health aide so I was able to be her health aide
-1	I was diagnosed with kidney stones when i was pregnant with my daughter, 5 years ago. I recently started having pain in my back that felt like another kidney stone. I went to the hospital and i was right.
1	I had a very bad headache that felt different than my normal headache. I went to the hospital and insisted that this headache was not a normal headache. The doctor did a CAT scan and found a pituitary cyst that was surgically removed.
-1	I was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2008. When I visited my doctor, she recommended a biopsy.  I understood what she meant
1	I'm cpr and first aid trained.  I'm not afraid to call 911 or administer care in an emergency situation.
-1	I actually used to attend college to be a nursing assistant. I also attended school to be a medical biller and coder and I learned so much through medical terminology and even having my own medical experiences.
-1	I have been able to successfully manage and understand my intermittent explosive disorder as well as my generalized anxiety and major depression. I also know when to seek help for uncontrollable symptoms.
-1	I have had irregular mammograms that has caused me to study up and better understand how things work. 
-1	I really can't think of anything. I have high cholesterol and high blood pressure and take medication for these conditions. I guess those would qualify. I do understand that I have to keep both conditions lower rather than higher.
-1	When explaining to my mom about how bad her lungs were from COPD, and how smoking even one cigarette could hurt her more, and so on.
-1	my mother was killed by breast cancer. She had both breast removed of course her life was never the same and my dads life was changed along with the rest of us, she was one of the 30
-1	When I encountered a fellow co-worker who was injured and unconscious I knew how to administer CPR and basic first aid until EMS came to the scene.
-1	I know when blood is spurting from a wound the first thing is to stop the bleeding and apply direct pressure or a tourniquet if an artery is severed
-1	When working with a person in the rehab gym I may have to check resting BP with some people before exercise and then afterwards.
-1	I have tried to stay on top of the latest health info. I try to take my doctor's advice and try to be more careful when it comes to my health as I have aged
1	I have a chronic condition and I have learned to do my research and be my own advocate. When researching a medical topic, the source material is very important.
1	My daughter was born with congenital empysema I have had to learn a lot about it and become fluent with it
1	I've worked as a CNA doing clinicals in college a few years ago. We had to apply what we had learned in the field. We also did class demonstrations for practice and skill mastery. 
-1	I can not think of any experience in my life to do this. I try to keep up on the medical world but I can't actually say I have complete knowledge of these issues.
-1	When I was 2mo pregnant with my second child, I never got thirsty. I could never recall the last time I had drank anything. I'd sometimes go a day or so with no water, maybe an occasional soda during the evenings. One morning I was rudely awakened with a pain I could not describe but somehow felt like I was being strangled on the inside of my lower left side. I went to the ER and came to realize I had Pylonepuhritis. 
-1	I have friend that was having a gall bladder attack. Since I have had gall stones and surgery to correct, I was able to identify her attack.
-1	I went to the doctor to see what was wrong with my stomach, it was hurting consistently. I found out it may be gallstones, and I immediately asked about what foods I should and shouldn't eat, and asked what the procedure was to help gallstones.
-1	i had a knee replacement. i research all the medications i was precribed. i also read all about the expectations for a complete recovery. i also researched the exercises and their benefits.
-1	i had sever kidney disease stayed in the hospital 8 days i passed a kidney stone threw up and had back pain
-1	My mom had a mini stroke a couple years ago and I had started school for medical assisting. Having a couple classes I understood about MRIs and was able to see what didn't belong in her scan
-1	Uh....nothing really comes to mind. I'm honestly at the point in my life where it's more mind over matter when it comes to me getting sick.
1	I went in for a stress test a while back and it came back abnormal so they did a test to check. They went into my veins and while they were there they discovered  a blockage at 2 different places and installed stents.
-1	My boyfriend was having chest pains. He was anxious about a new job that he had started and was being left alone to manage and close the store after only 2 days of training. The Doctors did several tests to find the cause of the pain.  When i went to visit him in the ER i asked if anxiety could be the cause, and they asked if he was anxious.  They prescribed anti anxiety meds and helped him come up with a plan to speak with his employer about having additional support for a few more days and the chest pains vanished.
1	I worked for a state mental institution when I was a young man, we had to do TPR's on patients. I think that about sums it up.
-1	When I took antibiotics I know when I take it I can get hurt if I don't take probiotics. It can be risky and hurt my digestive track.
-1	When my wife had a stroke I knew from previously dealing with family members what to expect . So was pleasantly surprised when she beat the averages
-1	There has been no time because I am not that knowledgeable about health issues and concerns due to not being that smart
-1	My daughter wasn't gaining weight when she was a baby and we had to deal with getting blood work done and test ran
1	Nothing really comes to mind except diagnosing myself. I know when I have the common cold versus when I have a sinus infection or bronchitis.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues would be when other people ask my opinion about medical issues that they have, subsequently establishing that I must be perceived to have great medical prowess.
-1	The girl I'm engaged to has health problems at time bc of her brain injury and it cAuses her to have a lot  neurological problems 
1	i have history of self inflected knee problems (sports).  as I was skiing few years back I broke my ACL and tore my MCL.  From my previous experience and discussions with doctors I know that the tear was serious but would not require ambulance.  So I got myself back to my car, drove home, slept a good night with help some pain killers and called doctor the following day, monday for an appointment.
-1	When I had a surgery that the doctor did a oops surgery on.I learned a lot about medical information because I had to go through issues for a year.
-1	when i got the flu, i knew what the symptoms of flu are so I figured it was the flu and i also knew that there were certain things i needed to do to help myself get better and stronger.
-1	When I was told I had to have a surgical procedures, because my condition was beginning to impact other organs and that was  not going to be good, as I could now develop other medical issues as well as the condition I needed the procedure for was getting worst, so I made the decision to go with the surgery and then take the necessary time off from work, restricted my activities in order to heal properly.
-1	I have had shoulder surgery and after my surgery I had to learn how to move and use my arm so I don't pull my shoulder out again
1	At one of my annual cardiovascular stress tests, I received an indication of a possible blockage in my heart. I was told that it could be a false positive reading because the machine was apt to produce that in 10% of the readings. I chose to have an angiogram to rule out blockage bacause my mother had suffered blockages that caused her to have open heart surgery.
-1	Just trying to interpret pamphlets or  literature in the doctors office is a cause for concern.You wish they used easier terminology and the likeness.
1	I was diagnosed with breast cancer 2 years ago, I chose a surgeon based upon doctor recommendation and recommendation of a friend. The surgeon assisted me in choosing an oncologist, who placed me on aggressive chemo therapy. Although I had originally planned to work through the chemo, I quickly realized that this was too stressful, and went on medical leave. I researched diets to help me deal with the chemo.  I opted for a double mastectomy (I couold have opted for a lumpectomy on one breast) in order to minimize my chances of remission.
-1	Going to college and getting a degree in the medical field and passing the cerification exam on my first try.
-1	My diagnosis for fibromyalgia was trying.  I had many tests and there was differing opinions among my doctors.  I finally was able to get a diagnosis that made sense to me.  It was a scary time.
1	when I saw a baby dr for my third child and said I wouldn't accept blood transfusions; he had to argue a bit about that in case of great blood loss. I knew that it was actually needing volume in the blood vessels that was first needed in that case, then something to carry oxygen.
-1	I was caregiver for my husband that had throat cancer, heart attacks and triple by pass plus a feeding tube for over three years with nothing by mouth plus he and I were and I still am diabetics.
-1	I have been a medical professional for over twenty years. I best experience was when I successfully  preformed CPR on on a patient. 
-1	When I had my knee replacement, I studied and researched the surgical procedure and after-care plans. I knew what to expect and what to watch out for. I was able to complete my physical therapy easier and be very helpful to the therapist. I was able to discontinue my pain meds quickly and resume my life.
-1	"i cannot think of an experience that has demonstrated my knowledge, but i know how i feel. if you tell me that i am wrong and i really feel a different way because i have ""such an such"" disease i am most likely to not believe what i am told, because I KNOW how i feel. you do not and you have no right to tell me that i am wrong because some book told you so"
-1	the first 2 yrs of my life i had 6 stays in a hospital. the visits increased as i grew. i had weird conditions that were very hard to diagnosis when living in the mid west and the dr's tell your mother that she is just seeking attention and her symptoms are in her head. when the conditions were finally diagnosed the operations were more intense and a much longer recuperation.
-1	I had many biopsies for cervical cancer. I even had the leep procedure.                                                                                                                                        
-1	I graduated  from nursing school but have been humbled by this test. Math is not my strong suit. Lol!
-1	I know only what I am told by a doctor or someone in the health field. I learn from what doctors tell me to do and take 
-1	A couple days ago a person I know accidentally cut they're wrist and if it wasn't for me holding pressure on the wound they would have lost a lot of blood 
-1	when I had my period and I knew that I was bleeding to much and something was wrong and I had to have something done
-1	I've been sick a lot. I have Crohn's disease, HLA B-27 blood factor, anklingosis spondolitis, psoratic athritis, I've almost lost my arm, don't know what caused that, I gave birth to 4 children and I'm a veterinarian technician.
-1	When I has my mammogram about 2 years ago, which they find a very little lump in upper part of my breast. Then I have to go and take X-rays again with an expert, but it turn out to be very same little lump that was there 10 years ago, with no change.
-1	when talking to my doctor about some symptoms I was experiencing I was able to describe things and suggest possible cuases
-1	Since I've always bee interested and well read about the history of medicine and pathology I've been mostly able to prevent unnecessary expenses of visiting doctors for non important issues.  I've also had a career in surgical pathology that paid the bills.
-1	i have a bug bite on my ankle that i have been treating at home.  I know that its not infected and that its healing because its getting smaller in size.  
-1	I know that you will have symptoms that can be acute and then go away. I know that some medications can react negatively when taken with other medications. I also know that prescriptions can be modified.
-1	none as I have been of excellent health all my life thus far.  I can't say anything else as I haven't had an experience
-1	I am not really sure how to answer this questions, al health and medical issues are different, there isnt a way for me to tell you how anything I have been through demonstrated my knowledge.
-1	Can't say I've ever had such a incident in my entire life that I can remember. If I would have I would absolutely remember.
-1	My 17 year old granddaughter was not feeling well and had a fine red rash on her abdomen and i suspected Scarletina and that is what her diagnosis was.
-1	I just had pneumonia an was told I now have A mass . I have Lung Cancer . I went through an operation an hopefullygone
-1	blood was taking to test for different health problems. when results were returned I listened to what doctor said and looked at papers giving to me to see results for myself
-1	when i had a flare up of IBS i knew i had to go to the emergerency room ASAP and they kept me in the hospital for 4 days 
1	I received a degree in Health Science so I'm informed and sensitive to many health issues in the Community. I'm willing to speak with people about their medical issues if they want to talk about. Talking with AARP members on the phone about problems that they're having, I contact a nurse via telephone about their symptoms and let them know what it sounds like. 
-1	One time a ran out of my breathing medicine. My dad went to get a refill but he wasn't quit enough.  I had an attack.  I new enough that my tubes had to open up.  The only thing that helped was putting my head in the freezer.  that did it great. 
1	I helped my sister when she was in the hospital and if I hadn't been there she probably would have died because of a situation that happened that I caught.
1	I went to college and majored in Exercise and Sport Science for 4 years.  I feel like I have a firm understanding of the body and health conditions.
1	When my husband was diagnosed with diabetes, I understood what readings his blood sugar should be. I was able to help him understand this.
1	My son was vomiting up bile but all the xrays showed no issues.  I knew based on his stats that is was lokely not somethong viral.  I pressed th doctor to speak eith the sirgery team again and theu did another type of xray and found a small catch in bis bowel tbat was causong all the problems.
-1	when doctors explain things to me when i had a dvt and i was in the hospital it helped a lot and i learned new things 
-1	My sister had been told she'd had a lump in her breast. I knew from others with the diagnosis that she'd have to have a biopsy to be sure and most everyone I knew had been fine. She did and the results said she was fine!
-1	I have cared for elderly parents and learned a lot about end of life.  I also have raised three children, one with ODD, one with CP and 2 of the 3 with severve asthma.
1	I was recently put on medicine for migraines. I looked into the medicine and its side effects thoroughly before taking it. I had a much worse headache afterward, which is apparently a reaction to taking the drug too often; since I had only taken it once, I figured that it must be because the dose was too much for me, making it an overdose even though it fit with the pharmacist's instructions. I got in touch with my doctor, who agreed with my plan to cut the dosage in half. It's worked much better since.
1	I was taking blood pressure medicine. It worked well but several years later I started to get light headed. I rechecked it and it was now too low. I asked doctor to lower amount of medicine.
1	i know a little about the health problems that i have had and i have consulted with my doctor and i have taken the necessary precautions for my wellbeing
1	I sometimes have to explain instructions for treatments to my mom who is 66 and not very confident in herself
1	i wasn't feel well and my hair kept falling out and kept gaining weight.  so i looked it up and it led me thyroid problems.  i was able to easily diagnose myself and get on medication quickly because my doctor tested me easily and was able to fix my problem.
-1	I myself have never experienced this nor do i have family members that that i know of but i have some friends that have very hard to deal with
-1	Been to the doctor too many times.  I don't really care for how much percent of what or what was read or taught in a book.  The best doctors are the ones that listen to what the patient is telling you, and if the doctor doesn't know let him do the research not the patient.  Example  I got staph went into shock.  No one could pick up on that.  That's sad even when I gave a urine tests.  They say so you took a pill and it went away.  No, after the shock it made my whole body ache and still does to this day I am stiff and tired and not what I was before.  Did the doctors ever study and find out what happens to people after staph. NO.  Cause it wasn't in a book.  So If I didn't get knowledge about health or my medical I would be six feet under by now.
1	Every time one member of my family gets sick, i always try to look for information before going to the doctor 
-1	My mother was a nurse and I studied to be a repitory therapist, even though that isnt what I got to do
-1	I am a medical assistant and I medical coder for over 20 years. so I understand a lot of the issues for health care.
1	I have high blood pressure and high sugar. When I lost 50 pounds , both went down to normal numbers. When I gained weight both went back up.
1	when my son broke his arm i was asked by his doctor if I was a nurse.  I must have impressed him for him to have asked me that
1	"I knew i was pregnant weeks before a test could confirm. I can feel my heart ""malfunction"" more noticeable than most because of how  long I've had my issue."
-1	I usually experience this when I can talk with the Doctor and he or she agrees with what I am saying.
-1	I can't think of any example of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I'm sorry but I can't think of one.
-1	my friend recently had a stroke. i took her to the hospital and stayed with her and helped the doctors by giving info. when she went home i helped take care of her. 
-1	I don't have much experience or knowledge of health or medical issues. I try to do research online to be more informed.
-1	Because I took three years of medical terminology classes in high school, i am able to understand doctors reports, and notes a little better 
-1	I fell at work and sprang my ankle it started to swell up the next day im so glad my coworker told me to fill out a accident report I'm so glad my coworker did because i would not have gotten workers compation i started to recieve my money 2wks later I'm so glad I did 
-1	when it comes to labels, i am pretty aware of what to look for. i have been learning more and more what to look for and what is good and bad. i have kind of amazed myself with that aspect of health studd. 
-1	I don't recall an experiene in my life that demonstrated this but I do read articles on health that interest me and watch health shows on TV.
-1	A friend was having an asthma attack & didn't have an inhaler with them. I gave them coffee since the caffeine would help open the breathing passages
-1	Before I go to the doctor I usually know what's wrong with me. I try my best to read and get alto of knowledge on illness and conditions. As when I had arhtitis in my knee I knew I had arthritis before going to the doctor because of the symtopms I was having was arhtitis symptoms and I had enough knowledge on arhtitis to know the symptoms.
-1	I cannot recall an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. Maybe knowing when I have a sinus infection. 
-1	II had been experiencing dizziness to the point of passing out.  I also had internal bleeding ,i let this go for a couple of days.  After looking at my hands and face i saw i was completely pale.  I was also having sharp pains in my abdomen.  After a little research a knew i had diverticulitis.  I went to the hospital had an mri and the results revealed that my thoughts on my simptoms were exactly right
-1	I have not had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health/medical issues. My husband has had several. He had a brain anyrsym, and multiple back surgeries though. 
1	It is hard for me to do this, I have only been hospitalized once and that was when I was four or five when I had my tonsils and adenoids removed.  Have had no broken bones or any thing other than a cold. 
1	When I had to switch doctors and explain my health issues, past testing, and treatment options.........
1	Many years ago I experienced a neck ache which was followed by a severe headache which no pain med took away.  I went to several doctors; primary care, ortho (for the neck issue) and even a chiropractor.  None could find what was causing the severe headache.  I kept saying that I thought it had something to do with my ears and after a lot of coaxing, I was sent to xray for mastoid problems and it was discovered that I had a mastoid infection.
-1	My knowledge of medical or health issues are always present in my life when I feel pain in my body, I know I nee3d to either take a over the counter pain reliever and rest  also know that if I cut myself or start bleeding, I need a bandage.
-1	I have had several  surgerys that I had blockedge and I knew what I had to do after them to take care of my self.  that included taking my meds. and walking and taking showers and taking care of the area where they went in.
-1	last year I was told I had a slight heart mur mr and also that my skin was becoming to have vitilago in certain areas 
-1	I was a caregiver for my parents for 14 years total. I took them to all of their appointments and cared for them day and night for 14 years straight. I learned a lot.
1	Just recently I overheard a man ask the butcher in the grocery store how long he should keep meat in the freezer.  The butcher didn't know but I had researched that recently.  I intervened and relayed the FDA into to them both.
-1	I became a certified nurses assistant when I was 18 years old and also became a emergency room secretary at Florida hospital when I was 19 years old. My mother was a physical therapist and spoke in medical terminology often.
-1	With my diabetes problems I have learned many things and I have learned to live with them. I have been very comfortable with my evolution.
-1	I was prescipted Tynonel with codiene after a dentist visit after my first dose, I noticed I was having trouble breathing and itching. I recgonized ab allegric reaction and went to the ER
-1	when i need emergency neck surgery. it ruined me for the rest of my life. i can't move around much or turn my head. it hurts everyday of my life and i am sure for the rest of my life it will be the same 
1	I had surgery to help GERD. I had to listen to the doctors explain the surgery and recovery. I had to follow instructions for recovery.
-1	Recently my significant other had a really bad cold and I could tell that is was bronchitis due to the fact that I 1) have had it before, 2) I am aware of what it sounds like, 3) I am aware of the symptoms from dealing with other people who have had it. 
1	Sometimes when I hear of people having certain medical conditions, I at least have some idea what the condition involves, and I am always confident that I can learn more.
1	having to take ownership of my own health and seeing my primary care physician for texts and the occasional colds, etc.  Also primary care take of my children with their peditrician
1	Talking about my Tourette's Syndrome that I had heard that it can also affect my breathing or seeming to be stuffed up which explains why I seem congested often
-1	long time ago I told a co worker that she might have diabetes because of the symptons she was experiencing, she went to the doctor and was told she had diabetes.
1	I have numerous allergies and gastroenterology issues. I have to keep up with treatments and be aware of new ways to deal with my issues.
1	When I was 20 I had opitnuritus.  I was told that might be a precursor to MS.  I again had it at age 26 and 36.  At age 39 I was diagnosed with MS as result of a spinal tap as MRI's were not yet readily available.  No drugs were available.  When they were available 3-4 years later I had had no relapses so neurologist recommend no treatment as side effects were bad.  I have had only minimial direct symptoms in 33 years but many autoimmune disorders so I understand taking care of ones health, watching symptoms and being grateful for every day that one is in an upright postion and walking.
-1	being diagnosed with prostate cancer and having to choose the right treatment plan for me.  I had to choose between surgery knowing what the side effects or Radiation treatment knowing what the side effects could be.
1	I'm a smart guy. I've always followed health issues as my family had concerns since I was a kid, especially with heart/cholesterol issues.
1	I was raised in a family with many health care professionals: medical technologist mother, nurse grandmother and aunt, physician grandfather. I also worked in the medical records department of a teaching hospital and took EMT training. Last but not least, have been helping my elderly parents negotiate the health care system in the last couple of years.
-1	when i suffered with watery eyes and runny nose i demonstrated that this was simply allegies to the outside plants and not anything too serious
-1	I suffer from depression and anxiety. Both prescription medications have side effects. The Lamictal prescription is probably the one that has a major effect: rashes. My doctor told me about it. I read the instructions that came with it. I do not have rases.
-1	Well first of all I am terrible at math.  But I generally listen to learn about important things.  I GREW UP IN A HOUSE OF 5 DIEBETICS.
1	I watch hospital shows sometimes and listen to the medical talk and then look up terms and disorders so I have a better understanding of what they are speaking about.
1	I was a nurse for over 30 years and am very familiar with most medicines when my doctor wants to put me on something new.  Family often asks me about health issues
-1	I was a care giver for my sister and mother who both had breast cancer.  I also took care of myself after having breast cancer.
1	Well I do a lot of reading about health and conditions to which my mother and I have.  My mother was having issues sleeping and I discovered because of one of her medicines she required more vitamin B 12.  Talked to the Doctor and she had my mom on B12 shots for a short while to get her back to healthy. 
1	I haven't had to demonstrate my knowledge before.  THe worst thing that has happened was a deep cut that needed stitches or a sprained ankle 
-1	I have type II diabetes.  After taking classes, I have learned how to control my blood sugar using diet and exercise.  I count carbs trying to have no more than 60 at each of three meals a day.  (Carbs-dietary fiber)  I also exercise by either hiking at the local park or walking the treadmill at the gym.  So far it is working.  My last A1C was 5.1 and my blood sugar rarely goes above 120
-1	I have had a few medical issues in the past and i also have an eye disorder. I am always doing research on what can help or hurt whatever is going on with my health. 
1	I was told two years ago that I had monoclonal gammopathy - a blood disorder that could develop into multiple myeloma.  I listened to everything my oncologist said but I came home and spent days researching about it online.  I wanted to make sure that I had a complete understanding of what was going on.
-1	When I worked in a hospital I often demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues on a daily business. It was quite a lot of years ago so I don't really feel as confident about my skills as I used to be. 
1	I am a breast cancer survivor and my husband is liver transplant survivor so we are very experienced with medical issues
1	When told that I was borderline diabetic I understood that I would need to watch my diet and exercise or else eventually need daily shots and the possibility/ probability of losing legs, arms, and sight as various family members and friends had. 
1	I have a child with autism and have become knowledgeable about neurological issues that I had no knowledge of prior.
-1	I  don't recall any issues that demonstrated my knowledge of any health or medical issues. I rely on the doctors' expertise. 
-1	I had an abnormal Pap smear which taught me what I did not know about Pap smears and what the various results mean. I did not know that there were different levels of an abnormal Pap smear. This has helped me know that an abnormal result can have many reasons.
-1	I have had only good experiences with my health and had good people help me out over the years to know all about these experiences i went through.
-1	When I was diagnosed with scoliosis. I thought it occurred in school age children not adults. The doctor explained why I was having the back pain. The scoliosis ex ray showed the curve on my spine.
1	after a few years of being told I was a borderline diabetic, my dr said I was now diabetic. at that time I stopped eating sweets, stopped adding sugar to my coffee, in general began eating healthier, began exercising more, etc, and next check up my dr said there was no sign of diabetes.
1	 I developed a sore underneath my big toe which was originally treated as gout, but turned out to be PAD.  I had to have a bilateral femoral bypass, followed by carotid surgery.  I learned an awful lot about how your body works going through all of that in the last 3 months.
1	I receive my lab results via a health management site provided by my doctor and am able to read and interpret the info
-1	I think I did well, answered all the questions, I found the questionnaire entertaining. is a good exercise
-1	the experience that impacted my life to better health was having children it amde me want to make sure that i was healthy for them and to see them grow
-1	i have a masters of science degree from a private university. i am also a patient who has a very serious and rare health condition i have been dealing with for years.
-1	I started hearing my heartbeat in my ears at night and new it was caused by high blood pressure. I went to the doctor to confirm this and sure enough  I had high blood pressure that required medication.
1	I was unable to talk because my throat burned and my tonsils were swelling. When I went to the doctor they told me it was laryngitis, which I was already pretty certain about, but the doctor confirmed things for me
1	I was proscribed a benzo for anxiety. I had an allergic reaction known as The Paradoxical Effect (which most doctors don't know about or understand) and so, when I brought these concerns up with my doctor, they attempted to place me on three different benzos, something that is COMMONLY known in the medical industry to be fucking fatal. I knew this thanks to indipendant research and told them no. 
-1	i helped my 11 years old son who had a cough attack and thanks to my knowledge he could overcome. That was a great experience
1	I wouldn't say I'm very knowledgeable but I do look up what my symptoms are online  (like on webmd) and guess my diagnosis with this information 90% of the time. 
1	I have had chronic health issues my whole life.  I have had to deal with these issues ongoing and this has given me knowledge of medical issues.
-1	can not think of any at this time. There are none that come to mind that i really want to share with any one at this time, or that i can remember
-1	It was my near death experience with lukimia that made what to know more about heath and its benefits 
-1	I am a nurse and take care of sick people with many different diagnosis every day. I also have had family members with health problems that I have had to help manage care
-1	I don't have a lot if any major or many personal health experiences.   I do understand is you eat or drink anything excessively your at risk of your health declining.  if you don't any form of exercise your at a health risk.  If your don't drink 80% of water your at health risk.
-1	did   home  health care  for my mother until  she passed  away . Accompanied her  to the  doctor  and stayed  up with her findings
-1	I used to work at a hospital a nursing home and a pharmacy for many years in different departments. I also worked on a rescue squad 
1	I can predict what change my doctor is going to make in my antithyroid meds just by looking at my blood work labs.
-1	when someone diabetic needs insulin or more sugar to keep going every day in my life is a challenge no matter where i am or what i am doing
-1	My mom and dad lived with us several years.Dad did dialysis at home,mom took care of him.I went with them to doctor visits,hospital,etc.I learned alot from all they went through.Dad passed away a year ago.
-1	"Since I have had so few medical issues, it is hard for me to actually demonstrate my knowledge of any health or medical issues.  I did have a mammogram and they said I had abnormal ""findings"" in my test.  Come to find out I had ""migrating"" lymph nodes - which I had never heard of."
-1	My daughter was diagnosed with a rare former of cancer.She needed lots of home care.The medical professionals taught me to do it all
-1	I had pain in my lower an and have been diagnosed with diverticulitis so when I feel that pain again i know to watch my diet and increase liquids for hydration
1	In 2007, I was alone in my home when I felt an abnormal event in my chest. I went and laid down on my couch and had a heart attack. I called the local non-emergency number for an ambulance. The dispatcher rudely said the I have someone who thinks he's having a heart attack, which turned out to be accurate 5 minutes after the ambulance arrived.
1	I used to work for podiatrists in the past, so I have extensive knowledge about feet and their diseases.
1	My mother had a stroke and then a broken hip two years ago.  I have learned the signs of problems with UTI's - mood swings, odor, says strange things, sleeps a lot.  I have to immediately contact the doctor to have a test done so I can catch it early enough to keep her out of the hospital.
-1	I am an RN. When I go to work in the hospital I demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues by the way I take care of my patients.
-1	I have had a lot of surgeries in the past. A couple of them 3 weeks apart. I ended up in ICU because of this. I almost die over it. I have been in and out of the hospital quite a few times over different things.
-1	I am not that good at statistically answering questions like those posed, but I have experience in researching and understanding health issues. 
-1	i dont have any coment on this all ,y health isnt that bad so i dont have to understand this plus prayer works
-1	I went to medical assistant school. That helped me understand medical terminology a little better and symptoms of different diseases
-1	After I had a bleeding ulcer when they explain to me what they were doing I could explain everything back to my family perfectly. 
-1	I fractured my hip in four places.  There was no healing in one of the fractures after a full year and several different types of surgery and treatments.  My orthopedist had no idea as to why this fracture wouldn't heal.  When I sought another opinion I was told that the first surgeon treated me improperly and the second surgeon was able to get everything to heal.
1	i understood the test results of some blood work and understood the reasoning behind the treatment plan laid out by my doctor
-1	I have a history of DVT blood clots and one time I started feeling the feeling I had had the first time clotting became a problem and though I was otherwise feeling fine I went to the ER. In the parking lot I started getting serious pain and I dragged myself to the ER where I told nursing staff what was happening and instantly gave me a clot buster and I was back home in about 2 1/2 hours.
-1	I have very little knowledge about health issues so I'm very careful and stay healthy and eat right food and drink plenty water.
-1	I have no experience at all with knowledge of health and or medical issuesnor do I care to at this point in time.
-1	Worked in medical insurance for almost 20 years,  Consulted with dr's on d ifferent cases trained others on edical insurance
-1	Several years ago I woke up with a severe pain in my back.  I had never had anything like that before but I suspected a kidney stone and when I got to the hospital I was right.
-1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was on an exam for my physical education class.
-1	I have copd. I understand the risk of continued smoking. I know what types of climates can exacerbate symptoms. 
-1	when at the allergist i was  told that i could use a salt solution since i did not want to use something with medicine i told the allergist that i already knew about the saline solution
-1	I don't really have one so I'm just going to put w wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwewwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwe wwwwwwwwwwwwwwww.  Wwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
-1	With my daughter delivering her first child and encountered medical complications.  I was able to advise her on her medical journey to recovery.
-1	My own health issues and going to college with a nursing student and helping her study for exams. As well as working in a nursing home. 
-1	I have taken classes in CPR & First AID, a few nursing classes & trained as a home health aid. I have also taken classes towards cerification as an herbalist. I am quite interested in health, nutrition and natural healing options.
-1	Looking over some paperwork that my sister had, I had to explain everything to her so that she could understand. 
-1	I have no idea. This is not my field of expertise. I know high cholesterol is bad so you should eat less fat and take your prescribed meds.
1	I had hepatitis C but didn't know it for about 18 years. I did a lot of research into symptoms and treatments. When I was treated, I researched the various medications and side effects, as well as the likelihood that the treatment would actually work.
-1	I have ashtma i use my knowledge to help the doctor prescribe the best medication for me.  I know what works and what does not work for me.
-1	At the doctor , explaining my symptoms and guessing what was the illness by the knowledge I received about the illness before.
-1	I have to say when I was undergoing the asbominal ultrasound when they statred   spouting off internal organs they were viewing and the related pain it wasn't good. The phone was ringing 2 hours later with the nws of what i felt, a bad gallbladder
-1	 I'm not really sure I understand the question why Dr. explains medical documentation to me I also have other people that can help me when I'm unsure of my medical issues
-1	well i exercise some and i know bout the benefits of exercise and how it affects the heart. also blood pressure
-1	I had to go to physical therapy for my foot and had to maintain certain exercises every day in a certain order in order for them to be the most effective.
1	I don't have any specific medical knowledge - I tend to use the internet to research issues so I can ask questions that might be relevant to my situation. 
-1	Well I went to college to study health science to become a physical therapist. So mostly in all my classes like medical terminology demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues 
-1	helping people with their medications and making sure they were taking them at the right time and the proper amounts.  if i had any questions about how the people were going about it, i would have them call their doctors office and they would give me permission to talk to their staff.  it would help straighten out any problems the person seemed to have!
1	My wife was a type 1 diabetic for years and a few years ago she got lung cancer. While she was sick I took care of all of her medication and insulin injections.
-1	I was at my mother's house on my birthday when she called for help because there was something wrong with my grandmother (who lived with my parents). My mom thought she had slipped into another sugar coma but I recognized the signs as that of a stroke. When the emt's arrived, they confirmed she was having a stroke. 
-1	My friend bump his real hard against the wall which he had a slight concussion I gave him Motrin every 6-8 hours well he went to the hospital and what I was already doing they told him to do
-1	I have extensive knowledge of health or medical issues. I have two years of health and medical issues.
-1	aFib, irregular heart beat, doctor prescribed appropriate medication that has the aFib condition under control  
-1	I learn as I go. Beginning with a serious car wreck where both of my legs were broken. I learned that bone actually can grow back. 
1	I have children so I have to be able to effectively diagnose simple illnesses and decide when to go to the doctor quite often. 
1	My dad couldn't figure out a chronic pain he was experiencing, but continued to do the type of work that was causing stress in the first place (later he was diagnosed with a hernia), however, he revealed to me that he had blacked out at one point and his bladder emptied.  So with that information the weakened area was allowing the bladder to slip through.  He had a successful hernia repair.
-1	My mother who had breast cancer I learned somethings like blood counts,cells ..what can affect it.chemo plus meds and her pain levels
1	I read online ans have found ways to improve my health through diet and exercise. I have also researched various medications to determine what the potential risks are involved
-1	This survey is unbelievable annoying!!! I am only getting 30 cents for this and it is like taking an exam!! Are you people sadists?
-1	I have only academic knowledge of these issues because I don't have to interact with doctors very often. My knowledge is based on my education from school. In school, I took biology, and anatomy to gain most of my medical knowledge.
1	I was stung by a wasp and started to get itchy, swelling, have trouble breathing, and my ears became hot
-1	that i follow what i need to better my health. and to try to get off medication that i am currently taking. 
-1	I demonstrate it every day. I have to diabetic patients with whom I have to check blood sugar and monitor glucose levels. I also have to wellness check all patients each day and sooth fears when they are not feeling up to par. When they're sick it's my job to make sure they don't need hospital intervention, I'm also CPR and first aide certified so for them I am the first responder
1	A person I knew had surgery and antibiotics afterwards and ended up having intestinal distress. I told them to contact their doctor about the antibiotics disturbing the biome of their intestinal tract. The doctor adjusted their antibiotic and the distress eased.
-1	First off if I flunk this survey it is because I hate math and am not good at it!  I have had several medical experiences in my life. I have a friend who takes a blood pressure medicine depending upon what his BP is. If the systolic is below 100 or the heart rate is below 60 the medicine is held. If I took his BP and it was 120/85 and the heart rate was 85 I would give him his medicine, if it was 98/60 HR was 55 I would hold the medicine. 
-1	i do not have any of that.i get check out all the time.so i just have cad that is all.do well just liver your laft the best you can....
-1	I never had any medical issues. I have always had good health. Even when pregnant, never had any issues.
-1	As I said, I worked in the legal side of medical issues for 35 years.  However, I know more medical terminology than the average joe, but my knowledge working with percentages is not good, and I think this survey dealt more with that.  Felt more like a entrance exam than a survey.
-1	my first mammogram i had couldn't find anything. i went back because of pain in my left boob and found 3 lumps and one was the size of a quarter
-1	There is really no way  I could pick an experience  in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues. The knowledge I have is a result on many different experiences over a period of 30+ years.
-1	A student in my class was exhibiting some signs of low blood sugar. I recognized this from taking care of my mother who is also diabetic. The student was tested and was diagnosed as type II diabetes.
1	"My daughter told me that she was constantly having to go to the bathroom and could barely get anything out each time.  I asked her how long this had been going on and has she been drinking much water.  I asked her if she was ""peeing out blood"" at all.  When she answered my questions, I told her she probably had a UTI.  The next day, we went to the doctor and my diagnosis was verified."
1	don't really think that i have had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health/medical issues.
-1	I was told that my liver enzymes were 10 times higher than last year.  I had a feeling it was caused by the statin I was taking.  After 5 blood tests and an ultrasound and discontinued use of the statin, my numbers were back to normal.
-1	I thought I had diabetes before my doctor told me by what I was told. Thirst hunger blurry eyes weight loss
-1	A man in Oklahoma contacted me He had blood poisoning.A bacterial condishion that could have resulted in death without treatment.I sent him materials to draw out the infective agents.He was injured in a bicycle accident.The instruction I gave him were followed He recoverd and called to thank me and called me doctor.He is now beginning to develope gray hair.Not to bad I would think even if I must say so. 
-1	THIS SURVEY IS REALLY STARTING TO PISS ME OFF. SERIOUSLY! WHAT TYPE OF QUESTIONS ARE THESE.TAKE THESE 100 CHARACTERS AND SHOVE THEM! WITH A CHERRY ON TOP.
1	A family member was told he had possible beginning of heart failure.  I read as much as possible as I could and as soon as I sure leg sweeling, I made sure he went to doctor who added 2 water pills to regimen.
-1	when i was diagnosed with uterine cancer it was then that i demonstrated my knowledge of health issues
-1	I know a lot about diabetes, I know that the wrong blood pressure or even sugar can put you in a coma. I know that without the proper medicine you can die
-1	This survey is getting monotonous. I recently was told that the pain in my low back is from scoliosis
-1	Well, years ago while in North Carolina had a girl friend who was have some breathing problems and had some chest congestion. went to cvs and bought a vicks vaporizer and the vapo stuff and bingo bango she was feeling better in no time.
1	I have Crohn's Disease and have to manage this chronic condition with medication and regular colonoscopies. I've been in remission for over 20 years. 
1	When i was able to help urge someone I know to get checked for minieres disease based on my symptoms. They went and were diagnosed and have been taking steps to deal with it.
1	When I became sick with a chronic illness, I had to step up to the plate and become knowledgeable about my illness and advocate for myself with my community and with doctors. 
-1	I have very little knowledge and interest in medical interest.  I was a camp counselor when I was in college and would tend to basic scratches and scrapes on a daily basis. 
1	There really isn't one.  I have helped a family member deal with an extremely serious health issue. For every issue and every medical concern there are lots of details to read through.
-1	None I can think of at the moment. I am pretty much a healthy person with hardly any health issues. I have to type something else because the survey requires it. I really do not have anything else to say on this question. I would like to move on the rest of the survey now. Thank you!
-1	discovered a problem with a physicial and was able to correct it by not taking a certain drug and now I am fine
-1	I have not had many health issues in the past. I do know that when a doctor explains something to me and I'm not totally sure about something I will ask questions.
1	My friend kept telling me she was having trouble breathing, short of breath, frequently, for no apparent reason, not just when exercising or working. I told her she needs to see a doctor. She had heart problems..
1	When I quit drinking I went to the doctor and had tests done to check my health. I found out that I have diabetes. I knew a little about diabetes but I knew that I would have to read all I could about it. Now I understand a lot about my condition and I have been keeping my numbers in line for about 3 years and now I take less medication.I control my condition with a diet of natural unprocessed food and exercise. I now feel better than I have in years and I feel like I have a real handle on my health and wellness.
1	I have had experience when I have been diagnosed with medical conditions because I research them and ask questions.
-1	When I was told I had diabetes.It changed my whole world upside down when I found out.I have so many times where I feel so bad I just want to sleep and not get out of bed.
1	I get kidney stones sometimes. Kidney stones start in the kidneys and are passed through your urine.
-1	I would say my whole life has been dependent on my knowledge as I am a 32+ year transplant recipient, having managed my well being thus far.  
-1	When I found out I had scoliosis. Also, having a cyst in my breastbone area.for the most part, continually getting sick all the time.
-1	My friend described to me their pain and how it radiated from their backs to chest and arm would go numb, and from my own previous experience, i told them it was a gallbladder attack and to immediately get checked. they had it removed that week. 
-1	When I was 37 I had to have emergency heart surgery. It was very unusual heart condition for my age.  I went through it twice. It could have been life threatening  but I made it through.
-1	Had to have two knee replacements.  Went to a class for information.  Asked lots of questions and did a lot of research on the internet.  Especially from actual patients who went through the operations.
-1	Recently my husband was in the hospital and I had to talk to many different doctors specialists and nurses
-1	I try really hard to eat right, exercie, meal prep, and read the labels on what I eat on a daily basis. I use a fitness tracker and Myfitness Pal.com on my phone to keep up with what I eat and my weight. It has paid off so far and the doctors tell me so when I visit.
-1	taking care of both my father and mother in health care aspects and everyday activities to maintain their lifestyle and taking them to all dr. appointments
-1	 the only knowledge I have is if I have gone through the medical issue in and you have seen results or if someone you love or a friend has had a medical issue and you have seen the results
-1	I havent hade health insurance in about 10yrs so its been hard being I cant afford to take care of my health as much as I wish I could
-1	i honestly can't think of a time that really demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. nothing specific comes to mind to explain 
1	I am a diabetic, and as such I am familiar with a great number of tests, a1c readings, and various risk factors related to the disease.  I also have both retinal and podiatrist issues that have forced me to learn more.
-1	i cannot think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	family in health coverage needing medical attention with clinic or hospitalto  needs free or reduced to help low income families
-1	High blood pressure, high cholesterol,  open heart surgery,  broken bones, obesity. All of these things give me experience,  none of which is reflected in a statistical analysis.
1	Throughout my life I have had several health scares concerning myself, family members and friends. These events made me aware of the need to be proactive in my own health care.
1	I used to work in the medical and had to train scribes to complete medical documentation for emergency physicians 
-1	I checked myself into the hospital after having a bus accident and I was diagnosed with pneumonia, type 2 diabetes and high cholesterol.
-1	When I was sick over the summer I started doing research on the symptoms. I started looking up articles to determine what I may have.
-1	i am not a doctor and have no medical expertise to diagnose an illness. i trust my doctor to do that. 
-1	Just normal going to the doctors for check ups, reading up on conditions, paying attention to what my doctors are telling me.
1	I knew what allergic reactions look like and when a child was experiencing a reaction to a medicine, I took the child to the doctor and was proven right
-1	I once started a new medication. Within a few days of taking it, I knew something wasn't right because of how I felt. I called the doctor and told him that I was having an allergic reaction to the medication.
-1	I had my gall bladder out many years ago and I read all I could about it before I even agreed to the surgery
-1	The classes I am currently taking for my degree in a medical field have increased my knowledge of health and medical issues 
-1	WHEN I WAS A CHILD I WAS DIAGNOSED WITH LEUKEMIA. I HAD TO LEARN AT THE YOUNG AGE OF TWELVE WHAT THIS DISEASE WAS ABOUT. I CAME TO LEARN THAT IT WAS A CANCER OF THE BLOOD.
-1	I knew that I had something seriously wrong with my back, even after initial tests showed nothing. Later, an MRI showed that I had a slipped disc.
-1	I studied biology & chemistry in college.  I can also read. and understand anything I read or am told.
-1	I was married to a nurse and all the information I aquired from her was enough to reeducate me in the medical field enough so I could understand a lot of the language used in the hospital.
-1	I am a security guard as my job and there have been times where I had had to access our first aid kit in our security office and find a supply to give to an employee to help them.
-1	hen I was twelve years old, a drunk driver hit the car my mother was driving while I was in the backseat. I have very few memories of the accident, but I do faintly recall a serious but calming face as I was gently lifted out of the car. The paramedic held my hand as we traveled to the hospital. I was in the hospital for several weeks and that same paramedic came to visit me almost every day. During my stay, I also got to know the various doctors and nurses in the hospital on a personal level. I remember feeling anxiety about my condition, but not sadness or even fear. It seemed to me that those around me, particularly my family, were more fearful of what might happen to me than I was. I dont believe it was innocence or ignorance, but rather a trust in the abilities of my doctors. It was as if my doctors and I had a silent bond. Now that Im older I fear death and sickness in a more intense way than I remember experiencing it as a child. My experience as a child sparked a keen interest in how we approach pediatric care, especially as it relates to our psychological and emotional support of children facing serious medical conditions. It was here that I experienced first-hand the power and compassion of medicine, 
-1	When I got sick and I had to go to 2 different hospitals and then was diagnosed with an illness. Then when I started research on my illness and seeing doctor I was able to understand more.
-1	I am a former EMT-B.   This has helped me more easily understand the diabetes diagnosis I have been given.   I already know what normal and abnormal blood sugar levels are, and what the signs of high and low blood sugar levels look like in the person experiencing a medical crisis.
-1	When the pap text came back abnormal. I started to do some research concerning the issue which allow me to gain the knowledge.
-1	I don't trust the statistics. I wonder what the doctors families do when they are sick. Healthcare is way to expensive so if you get sick and can't afford health care, you could die or lose everything. 
-1	first off I don't like doing the math on a survey, and this is not what I thought this was about. I don't really think about stuff like this, that is what the doctor is for in the first place let them figure all this stuff out
1	I have a friend who has experienced severe tiredness and short of breath but he refuses to go see a doctor.  I have advised him that he has a serious health problem and that he needs to be tested to see what is wrong.
-1	i really dont have anything that i know of so i dont have anything to write about i knew what a csection was and knew what was going to happen when i had one
1	Today my dad received a call from his cousin that her husband was going to have surgery tomorrow for a brain tumor discovered after he had a seizure.  I explained to my parents that brain tumors are often not discovered until after a person has had a seizure.
-1	I was asked once from a friend on my experience of child birth. I did not have a natural child birth I had a c section so I recounted the story of how I was in labor for 40 hours and they labor was not progressing so I had to then have a c section. I then gave informations on the recovery of a c section in my experience.
-1	I have had many experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues because I am an RN. The memory that stands out the most is when my cousin told me she urinates frequently in large amounts and was constantly thirsty. I told her those were signs & symptoms of diabetes. Shortly after that she was told she was diabetic. 
-1	when ever my little sister has a cold, i take care of her. i make sure she takes the proper natural forms of medicine so that she does not experience drowsiness during the day. i usually have her drinking green tea, vitamin c tablets and ginger
-1	The process of my surgery and how long it take me to recover the pain I experience was so much that I don't even understand what is going on 
-1	Well I have eczema and it's very irritating. If I stress too badly I will break out. If I sweat badly I will break out. Not fun
-1	my experience is that i have been able to apply knowledge on basic issue and processes about health related matters
-1	I recently had a urinary tract infection. Because I had one in the past, I knew what to expect and I knew I had to go to a doctor right away to get a prescription. I also knew because of my difficulty swallowing pills that I would be able to have medication that I could crush. 
1	My friend has a daughter who had a seizure. I was able to use my own condition and knowledge of seizure procedure and risks to help them be calm, and know what to do in the future.
-1	Didn't have any situation to demonstrate my knowledge of medical issues so I couldn't explain something that I didn't experience 
-1	I enjoy CPR classes because they allow me to use my basic science knowledge in a more practical environment.
-1	Blood clots entered in my lungs.I had a hernia remove.I had walking pneumonia.I hah surgery on both knees.I have asthma and a hole in my diaphragm
1	My grand mother was not feeling well and she was always tired and the doctor she had told her she was just run down. I thought it was more than that and I took her for a second opinion and she had Luekemia.
-1	I went to the emergency room and told the doctor about my pain. They wanted to give me certain medicine that I knew was not good for me.
-1	I had knowledge of my health issues back in 2011. I did research on polysystic cysts after the doctor informed me there was a possibility of me having them. I went to the doctor the next time knowing what to expect
-1	I started to pursue nursing for awhileand have a very little but of medical knowledge but most comes from having axe with alot of the girls at the school who actually did the work and would talk about it when I was at their various houses 
-1	Recently had foot surgery to remove a damaged nerve. Had painful cortisone shots for 3 years prior to surgery
-1	After I delivered my youngest child, the doctors noticed that my heart was racing. I had to get an ultrasound on my heart to make sure there wasn't anything wrong. Thankfully it wasn't. It was scary at the time.
-1	When I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia I had to learn what things to do and things not to do to help me feel better in my everyday life
-1	In November of 2007 I had a heart attack and had to have triple-bypass surgery as a result.  My doctor explained, in terms I could understand, exactly what was going to be done.
-1	In high school and in college take heath courses and even nutrition class played a big part in my life. My professors definitely made the class fun and challenged us. 
-1	As I get illnesses I learn more and more about the solutions to getting well. This goes for family members and my children as well. I get information from the doctor, pediatrician, nurses and I do thorough Internet searches. 
-1	I am trained in and administration, I feel that I know enough to save someone's life. Also in first aid
-1	I have never had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I am obese, but I am dealing with it. I do not have experiences that I can talk about it. 
-1	Finding out I was pregnant before taking a test is example of me being knowledgeable of my health. I was able to recognize the signs.
-1	I cant really recall any experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues
-1	IF YOU KNOW YOU ARE DIABETIC, YOU CHECK YOU BLOOD SUGAR EVERY DAY TO MAKE SURE THE SUGAR IT NOT TOO HHIGHT OR TOO LOW
1	When I was told I may have cancer ,then I had a bunch of biopsies  3 to be exact yeah I had it  20 years ago.
-1	I googled my Mom's symptoms an found that she had a gall bladder issue that was not boing diagnosed by her dr.
-1	I work as a medical/surgical/trauma ICU nurse. I use the knowledge I've gained to help myself stay healthy. If I don't know about a condition, I ask my doctor, physicians I work with, or research it
-1	I don't have an experience that I can recall where I had to demonstrate a knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I have several years of college, and I've concentrated on medical specialties, medical office practices and medical terminology.
-1	Helping my dad throughout his end of life care. Having worked as a hospice social worker years previously, it really helped me when navigating the hospice care of my dad.
-1	I have not had any situations when i was not knowledgeable.  I will all was ask questions until i feel comfortable about the ussues.
-1	When my husband was fighting diabetes and kidney disease and I had to monitor his medication and eating habits 
-1	I had a mammogram and followed up with an ultrasound and biopsy.  I knew what the procedure entailed what to expect and how to follow up with future visits 
-1	I worked at an psychological medical hospital as a medical records clerk so I went over a lot of medical terms and health issues. I have also experienced symptoms with my thyroid. I research a lot about that especially after I had a biopsy to see if it was cancerous.
-1	I recently had to correct a medical person about the proper way to pronounce a certain medicine I was on
-1	Experience has helped me with my knowledge of health and medical issues. I try to keep myself informed but am not afraid to ask questions to get me by
1	I have gone to the doctors for a number of things in the past and with each examination I am given a diagnosis. If I do not understand what is said, I would ask the doctor to break it down or explain it again
-1	When I was diagnosed of abnormal pap smear and that I also had abnormal growth. I was scheduled to have a procedure to remove the growth. With the research I did, I declined the procedure and to my credit, two colposcopies later, I was cleared.
-1	There hasn't been any times that I have had to demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	An experience that I have often is that I often get physicals for sports and because of this I believe I know enough basics health information to make appropriate health decisions...
-1	I expericed terrible health issue for years. Doctors themselves couldn't figure out. I used as much info as I could including getting infor from natural doctors and sloved my own problem. I am almost healed from my problems. Its been a year!!!! 
-1	I am able to do calculations because I have an exceptional aptitude for math, but I do not understand the medical terms and information provided.
-1	theres no experiences or have i ever expereinces in my life that would demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	I had gastritis not too long ago. I was scared because I did not know why I was in so much pain. I didn't want bad news. It turned out to be something that would pass and not last forever. Just was an eye opener to take better care of myself.
-1	The only experience I have is given birth to my children and having regular health check ups. I have also had to deal with common illnesses like the flu and multiple occassions.
-1	there are none. My health has been good over the course of my life. zno blood pressure, high cholesterol 
-1	Nothing really big has happened in my life so far yet. Nothing to talk about right now. Don't have anything to say 
-1	When I went to the allergy doctor for a check up and found out both side of my nose was blocked and need surgery fast to open up my air ways.
-1	I occassionally expereince low blood sugars. I know how to treat that condition with ease and not panic.
1	When I was pregnant for the first time and even though I was in good health i had to completely change my whole life style and eating habits to ensure the safety of baby and I. I was unaware of the risk that could arise for baby and I if I didn't get enough water, vitamins, minerals and etc.
-1	I studed biology after my mom had brest cancer and the unit on cancer I was able to use my own knowledge of the disease 
-1	While lifting weights at the gym I pulled a muscle in my upper arm. While waiting on it to heal my shoulder froze up. At this point I have what is called frozen shoulder. I had to be put to sleep so the doctor can move my arm around, it was to painful to do when I was up.
-1	I learned a lot about good health from reading medical books and researching online and look at some medical shows
-1	Getting tested for sickness. Or depression , it really is a serious matter in life and also kills. Its best to get it taken care of before matters get worse 
-1	I have high blood pressure and pcos which I have been disnogised with since last year. I do not have any experience with any medical or health issue only from what the doctor tells me.
1	I study health issues that involve me, my family, and loved ones. I stay abreast of the news and recent findings.
-1	I have had multiple premature births. Due to me being born premature and had my first child early I am prone to deliveringmy child premature.
-1	When I was diagnosed with high cholesterol. Other than being prescribed a drug to treat high cholesterol, I had to change my diet & read food labels.
-1	There hasn't been a time in my life where my health/medical knowledge was significant enough to remember and describe.
1	I conducted research on a certain condition.  I researched treatment options and side effects.  I was effectively able to talk to my doctor about the condition and possible treatments.
-1	I have and suffer with high boold pressure. i am told to watch my cholesterol level and reduce the risk.
-1	I mostly just have stomach problems but people lots of them have the same problem as me but it's still serious
-1	I have been through and I am still going through with my health and Medical issues. And through it all I was told couldn't have kids. I have 1 and another on the way 
-1	I don't know too much but I know somethings. I have I better understanding on the human body parts than the fat.
-1	Taking care of sick family members and also dealing with child birth and toddlers has helped me learn a bit about it
-1	Nothing go share because I dont typically have major medical issues.  Nothing else to add.              
-1	I was tested for my iron level while pregnant and it came back 10.7. Pregnant women iron level is suppose to be at a 12
-1	when i injured my hand and i had to excersie my hand everyday and take pain medicine for the pain to go away 
-1	when my grandmother was sick and fell to he floor i was the only one in the house strong enough to pick her up and carry her.  that was years ago but ill never forget the experience 
-1	I have a hole in my heart and a leak in my valve but I never played attention to statistics or what a paper might say. I just love my life however I want to
-1	When my mother had kidney failure, it taught me about eating less processed foods and how to eat better for better health
-1	i had a headache was experiencing aura with my vision and nausea and vomiting. New it was a migraine. 
-1	none at all, just with birth control and the lielyhood of me getting pregnant. other than that i haven't had anything crazy done.
-1	I dont like to do math. But i learn about percentages. And calories. And about Hart raters. When you have to call the doctor if your temperature. At 104
-1	Taking and understanding my blood sugar reading.  When to take and in what amount to take my insulin.
1	My mom once got a prescription and, upon reading the drug information I found that it contained an important warning for diabetic patients. So, I stopped her from taking it, and returned it to the pharmacist.
-1	I think with a parent & those who were active in child's life. Who know the importance of well-being & health. Family health being of disease control & the spreading diseases among family members. When, reading (also when in school being taught health & personal hygiene beginning in about 3rd grade latter in 7th & 8th grade) about disease in science or an article about prevention. Child Health Care in public schools, public health & the controlling & spreading what I is communicable & preventive. I also being told early in public school what is preventable & contagious (pink eye) also I am in an age group when shots were given in school to prevent polio, public concerned about smallpox, etc.. I given several things to extend life & prevent disease, including the home (impetigo infectious pusules, etc).
-1	I have seizure disorder as well as my youngest son. Also my oldest son had heart issues and leg issues requiring braces.
-1	Well I have very bad eye sight and so any time I go to my eye doctor that always check the back of my eye and my pressure point to see if I have any disease. Also glycoma may run in my family so that is another reason why I get checked 
-1	when i was diagnosed with fibroid and tumor and had to undergo surgery and since that day my life has taken a dramatic change
-1	Reading my medical records and separating pertinent medical records from records that were not that critical to my disability 
-1	I don't really have an experience in your life that demonstrated your knowledge of health or medical issues. Therefore there is really nothing I can put for this answer.
-1	I was diagnosed with cancer on the thryoid.  The only real way to tell the doctor had to remove my left thryoid.  The thryoid was removed but no cancer was there, but I was left with one thryoid.
-1	My experience in my life was when my grandmother became ill with dementia. It was very eye opening and hard for our family, but it also educated us in many ways. 
-1	I'm Not always accurate on medical information provided. I didn't go to medical school, this is more of reducing health risks on health.
-1	I have been diagnosed as having high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and being overweight.  All these conditions lead to heart attack and stroke so I am using diet and exercise to help correct these conditions.
-1	By going to doctors and dentist regularly and knowing about eating healthy and exercise.  Taking  medicine and learning more 
-1	I have high cholesterol so I had to take medication to lower it.  I became more aware of my diet and more informative of cholesterol labels.
-1	I had to take the hardship of learning about my knowledge of health or medical issues through college. I actually failed because the nursing instructors were too critical about me and said that I had a learning disability, which I didn't. I was just not interested, although I was going through stress and confusion as well as depression going to classrooms to practice LPN under prejudice nurses.
-1	I had pneumonia twice when I was a child so when my grandmother started showing signs of pneumonia, I immediately took her to the hospital. 
-1	The doctor gave me a prescription  I was able to read the bottle with how medications to take when to take when refill where to get it 
-1	 Well sometimes I have a groin problem when I lift my leg my groin will click or pop some say.  When it happens I have to do the certain stretches that my chiropractor told me about so I really don't have to tell them about the problem because I already know how to get rid of it. So this is an experience that demonstrates my knowledge of a health problem 
-1	I knew I had PCOS before I was diagnosed. I had come across many women who had similar symptoms to mine so I figured that I had the same condition. I had always known something was off with my body and hormones 
-1	I had an illness in which symptoms I was familiar with. I used my knowledge of this illness & my familiarity to diagnose myself any get rid of that illness.
-1	when i first went to the hospital for my condition and i was given information about my health and how important my condition was
-1	A few years back, I had one microscopic surgery on my left shoulder, and later two surgeries on my right shoulder...both due to on the job injuries. Thanks in big part to the doctor/surgeon involved I gained great knowledge of my condition and why.
-1	When I got hit by a car and had to take all kind of exams is when I experience in your life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	I don't profess to have extensive medical knowledge. I think I simply have the aptitude and an ability to reason that helps me in understanding medical issues that are explained to me or that I have researched. 
-1	When I had my seizure that demonstrated me a lot about health and so did school .. I learned a lot about health and what to do and not to do .
-1	When my mom was battling cancer I had to ask questions and administr meds to her looking up as much info as I could
-1	With type 2 diabetes. Testing blood sugar and taking insulin. I have to take metformin also. I have to make sure I take it everyday. 
1	I did extensive research regarding a diagnosis of an extremely rare form of cancer and determined the best course of action among various medical opinions.  As result, she is completely healthy ten years later.
-1	I do not have extensive medical knowledge. I read books.i don't go to the doctor much. I do not have any examples
-1	Knowing is important to me my health is extremely important I don't take it for granted at all my life and future depend solely on how I take my health 
-1	Everyone in my family suffers from depression.  So do I.  I knew something other than medicine could be done for it because medicine did not work.  Long story short, Dr stopped at maybe a thyroid disease.  I kept researching.  The real problem autoimmune disease.  We all lived with a large exposure of DDT.  It depleted our minerals and left us full of heavy metals.  I t caused us to display  many different behavior disorders.  Now our whole family can heal.
-1	My grandmother saw an ENT and was diagnosed with a few things. I read the doctors report and broke the report down to my grandmother in terms she could understand. 
-1	When I woke up from a nap and had to have help to sit up because I kept falling over and couldn't stand on my own 
-1	I went to school to be a Massage therapist, so I still remember some muscles. When I was diagnosed with costochrondritis, I knew to stretch,exercise, and to do less lifting. I still also read medical books.
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues depends highly to an explanation from the doctor or what I can research on the internet.
-1	I was a certified nursing assistant for almost fifteen years. I also so have five children two of which have medical issues. I have also been responsible for the care of my parents who also have a great deal of medical issues.
-1	The is that I didn't no that I had health and medical issues until I was about 47 years old but my family new that I had health problems didn't acknowledge to me that I was different I didn't understand what was going on in my life and I really wanted no why am I not progressing and lead to believe that was normal and people use to look at me he really  don't no that he had issues until one day I overwhelmed and caused take anymore and this nurse no that I couldn't see myself somewhat put me on the right path that make me see myself I wasn't not social as I thought I was how mentally challenge I was
-1	when my son hadd a lumpin his neck i understood what the possibilties could be and knew the signs and did thorough research before hand
-1	i have not had a experience in my life to where i can answer this question any kind of way.this is something major in life
1	One time, my close friend was having an anxiety attack, and I was able to get her what she needed. Everyone else thought it was better to crowd around her, because they were unaware of what was going on, I was able to get the crowd away, and get her the proper help.
-1	I don't have my medical issues . I haven't really been in a situation where I needed to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues .
-1	I dont have much experience of health or medical issues. I just research different symptoms online or go to the doctor.
-1	I took my mum to the emergency care and the things they talked about and do there for me to say wow this is incredible 
-1	Health and medical can be life threatin if you don't have the calculationsame that is needed to come up with the conclusions to the problem.
-1	Temperature of 100.4 with child and coughing, took to er, stay all day, was admitted came out with instructions that had to be followed with no errors 
1	An old childhood friend gashed her leg open to where you could see the bone and muscle and I had to cut off the blood flow to that area and clean the wound 
-1	I don't have any experience with heath or medical issues. If I have a problem I google it or ask my doctor. I have now knowledge of this at all
1	I was able to figure out that cutting out sugary foods and foods with extra processed ingredients, as well as using a cleanser would help me lose weight and I was right. I did lose a lot of weight. 
1	We as women know that if you ever had a yeast infection you will automatically know  you have one when you have the symptoms.   So instead of wasting the time, gas to to go see the doctor and wasting the doctor's time;  we can go to a regular grocery or drug store to purchase a kit for yeast infections and treat it ourselves.
-1	I've actually increased the knowledge of my health within the past 6/7 years because I was diagnosed with an auto immune disease. So therefore I try to be more knowledgeable of my health.
-1	I have some experience, but I'm at that age where I'm taking control of my health for myself instead of my parents coercing me to go to the doctor. 
-1	I never really had an experience yet like that . only for school like a test or an exam. I couldn't really say if i would have anything. Maybe when my doctor told me i was almost near over weight when i was a teenager. I told them what  i have do to so  would be at the level for that.
1	When doing my job,  I have to be able to identify the different types of ob gyn procedures for medical billing
1	The birth of my child. I knew certain things were out of my control so I focused on what was such was my reaction in turn this lead to a pain med free delivery with no unnecessary interventions.
1	I took nursing classes in college and received my certification license and graduated at the top of my class. I took my clinical training and passed that as well.
-1	When reading my prescription which said to take every 8 hours for 8 days. I knew I took the meds 3 times a day. Every 8 hours for 8 days
-1	i have not had any experience as such so I may not be able to tell that story but one day J do hope to have a memory of that
-1	when i have health issues i look them up online or watch dr oz to get some information on the issue thats all i have to say
-1	I have sleep apnea so had to go through a sleep study to get through it. I was diagnosed the next day and prescribed a cpap machine.
-1	I'm not sure how to answer this question.  I go to the doctor and believe what he says.  I look up thongs that I don't understand inn the Internet.
1	I watch a lot of greys anatomy which sounds dumb but has come in handy several times in my life when hearing symptoms and encouragement to others to seek treatment 
-1	that your health is nothing to play with if you have health problems its best to get to the doctors before things get worse and before anymore problems start
-1	i just recently had a mammogram an it was normal and i was happy with the report. i was very knowledgeable about the reults
-1	When I was little my cousin fed me fruit juices a lot and one day I had to go to dentist and get all my teeth fixed
1	When i was diagnosed with endometriosis I did a lot of research on the best ways to treat and the types of surgeries and medicines and the risk of recurrence
-1	Back in 2009, I was getting dizzy spells where the room would just spin and spin all around me without any warning. After I had collapsed to the floor, an ambulance had arrived where I was taking to the hospital and it was there that the good doctor had diagnosed me with having vertigo. Since then, I've been managing it by taking medication. And though from time to time I may still receive slight moments of blurred vision & the occasional dizzy spell, I'm still managing and doing a whole lot better today, than I did 5, 10 years ago.
-1	I was a clinical specialist in the Army. I had worked at numerous Military hospital in my career.  I have taken care of many injured soldiers. 
1	I had to explain some medical terminology and procedures to my sister when she was in the ER. That helped her calm down. 
-1	When I graduated and started to go to school in the nursing field That's when I started to gain knowledge
-1	When I first took a certain vaccine, I got sick every three months so the second month that I went in for the same thing, I was able to save myself and the physicians a lot of time by telling them exactly what my symptoms were
-1	i dont know, i guess when i saw people getting sick in hospitals and not knowing why they were grttinh sivk
-1	HAVING GONE THROUGH MEDICAL SCHOOL IN NURSING AND WORKING WITH PATIENTS OF VARIOUS MEDICAL HISTORY AND BEEN MYSELF A PATIENT RIGHT NOW AND FOR SOME TIME HAVE INDEED EQUIPED ME WITH THE KNOWLEDGE  ON MOST MEDICAL ISSUES.
-1	I correctly diagnosed myself to have trigeminal neuralgia. But my doctor at the time wouldn't listen.  I not only had to take tests (dentist, pinched nerve, etc.), but the testing delayed my getting the meds I needed to deal with the pain. 
-1	I really dont have any health issue im pretty healthy. I havent had any doctor come to me with any health issues
1	I can't recall any experience in my life where I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues. I rarely get sick or have serious health issues.
-1	Going to the doctor is one thing that helped me understand health and medical issues. The second thing is my old health class from high school.
-1	I really dont have that much knowledge of medical issues other than the medical issues that i currently have and that my husband and children have other than that i dont have knowledge of enything else. If it is something that i am dealing with then i choose to educate myself. 
-1	I do not have many health issues so I am okay with the condition I am in however I am sometimes worried of what could become a problem 
-1	Choosing madicinal methods of curing back pain for scoliosis instead taking Percocet. Curing my stimatch ace using ground ginger instead of over the conter petobismal. 
1	When I was have problems with passing out.  I kept getting told it was heart related.  I didn't believe it to be true gut feeling.  It was finally figured out that it was chronic anemia and I needed IV iron therapy for the remainder of my life.  My persistence found the true diagnosis 
-1	There was never a time in which something occoured that required me to demonstrate. I'm not a medical professional but I don't have trouble understanding simple medicine and explanations that are given to me
-1	I really don't have experienced that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issue. So I don't know really how the answer that
-1	I don't I'm going to show that people don't ask to do these things that I'm doing . People want to alway show that I'm broke and have no morsel in life or that I don'work for that poem or they get so much tna that they don't get in trouble for the I don't now how to answers my own urges to help cope with life some will show me that I don't know how to stay in it and win like everyone people are like savages and ether will eat your head off it you let them . I'm gong to give you this I haven't don't e anything to better or even challenge myself for to be s better person other for some else to not see that in a person show how this my effect some else life and not mine I get everybody is conceal ing ther in tenthescto to hear, to orthers and not them self or them selfies the onethey help or I'm just giving up to m
-1	The only experience would be personal experience, readings online, and sad to say but television. Some of the information on how to calculate did come from school but some calculations I did not know because I was never taught how.
-1	there really hasn't been an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues per se
-1	Whenever I have a cold I make sure to look for the proper signs like high fever, running nose and congestion before treating.
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health issues when I talked to my mother about my pcos and all the symptoms that come along with it.
-1	I'm not that good with math and the percentage is hard. Never did a health or medical class before.zyx
-1	High blood pressure and,Diabetes is my main health concerns and,a cure for all these diseases. I have learned how to deal and control this.
-1	I needed to have an ailment with my foot taken care of. I asked all the questions that I thought would help in my situation from multiple doctors before deciding on getting procedure done.
-1	When testing for blood pressure, I got a reading of 160 over 95. I waited 10 minutes and got a reading of 170 over 99. I saw that it was rising, took meds, waited and tested again. When results were even higher I called 911, possibly preventing a stroke.
1	15 years ago I was told that I had borderline high cholesterol and was told to take Lipitor. I did research on Lipitor and on statins in general and found that I would have better outcomes if I eat healthier and exercised more.  Later tests have confirmed my approach was correct. I'm 65 now.
-1	In physiology class where we were treated on the bones and muscles of the body and was completly correct about almost most of it
-1	Two things happen later in my life as I was getting older is the following:  arthritis and bladder incontinence. When I was younger I never had the problem. Until my early forties it started to flare. I did tell my doctor long time ago that I can not hold my bladder. And he just ignored the discussion about the problem. The sad thing about it I continued to see the doctor. Until reality hit me that I need to go somewhere else because he do not care for my health.
-1	I have no experience that I would like to share at the moment. I prefer to not answer. It's a bit personal.
-1	I just took this survey and literally barely understood the questions they were asking me now i feel dumb like i failed a math quiz
1	My leg started to drag and I knew something was wrong and i Kept going to different doctor until I was finally admitted to the hospital.
-1	I only have asthma I have trouble breathing after rubbing or exercising for long periods of time and some times in small areas it's also hard to breathe 
-1	Knowledge of health knowing if you feel bad you should consider going to the hospital but also try to do the best you can with trying to make yourself feel better if it not that serious but also always go to the doctor 
-1	My dad died from septic shock last year. He had flu symptoms, so he went to the urgent care down the street from my home. They told him he had a normal virus that needed to pass. 4 days later, he died and was diagnosed with septic shock.
-1	I've had so many health issues in my life since my early twenties, that I feel very knowledgeable about so many areas of medical issues.
-1	On time my mother had wondered out into the cold. I didn't know how long she had been out, but I thought it might be a medical emergency. As it turned out, she stayed in the hospital for about a week.
-1	I have tinnitus but many nurses and doctors would not say that my symptoms matched up to what it was. i went to an ear specialist and it turned out to be tinnitus 
-1	I think I took a human biology course and lab at a community college and when I was able to take some medical quizzes for a social website I was able to do quite  well on them. 
-1	I really don't remember any experience in my life that demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I really don't have anything but my life great and I'm loving life .and the people n my life .I think I'm healthy 
-1	Just my every day living. Eating right exercising doing yoga. I know that this is the way to stay healthy
-1	I have high blood pressure. I have managed to keep it in check but when I go in and get my blood pressure checked I usually have a conversation with the one taking the reading and what I can do in my nutrition to improve it. 
-1	They have been times when I have shared my knowledge of having high blood pressure and hypothyroidism with others who are experiencing the same thing. 
-1	When my brother was born he swallowed fluids and had trouble breathing on his own. When everyone arrived at the hospital I was able to tell the family members what happened and explain to them the situation about my brother and why he had to be kept in an incubator.
-1	I catch the flu a lot so I know what medicines to take and what food to eat. I also know how much rest is needed and when to see a doctor when it is not better. Usually if not better in a week I will see a doctor.
-1	I broke out in a rash and suspected it was shingles. After checking online I made a doctor's appointment and upon my visit to my doctor it was confirmed. 
-1	I have family members with health issues and i have attended doctors appointments with them and asked questions. 
-1	I dont havr medical knowledge. I rely on my doctor to help me understand information. Medicine is also math based which I don't understand.
1	In room care of my mother before she died. She had several health issues and had to take many drugs to control those issues
-1	One-day my doctor recommend I stop taking st.john's wort because it was affecting me and I already knew that because I had read about it online. 
-1	I've had some medical issues. I once dislocated my knee cap. I have eczema. Had preeclampsia during my pregnancy. And had had chronic gastritis during my trip to Taiwan. 
1	I have had to help my mother with post surgery recovery twice. Once with gastric bypass and another time with a hysterectomy.  
-1	When i got burned i had 2nd and 3rd degree superficial burns from my kneecaps to my feet. 10% of my skin was burned.
-1	I notice in my younger year that if I hang around trees I have allergies. I begin to keep medicine for allergies around me to help fight it's affects.
-1	 actually false positives. If 1,000 women receive mammograms, and 200 are told there is an abnormal finding, how many women are likely to actually have breast cancer
1	I have experienced a high temperature and cold, which indicates that I could have the flu.  Also, when I start itching and seeing dark spots it signalifies that I starting a Eczema breakout.
-1	Having high blood sugar and not taking care of it and not talking too My doctor and not taking my meds it very inporant too me it can be very I'll and it may be death.
-1	As previously stated I worked for a health insurance company's for the past 2 years and my knowledge I have gained at work I have used for my own health and wellness.
-1	When I was younger I fell down a flight of stairs, and I had to get stitches. I had a stitches for about 2 months 
1	I have a child and helped to take care of my sisters children so I make it my business to know what I'm reading and being told. Whenever a family member gets sick I look up everything on what I need to know about it.
-1	Anytime my daughter has a flare up from her eczema I am knowledgeable due to her having it since she was a baby.
-1	When I was pregnant I knew I was told the doctor I was and when I too a urine test it was positive and so was my infrasound .  
-1	One time I was involved in an accident in which another person was cut on the leg and bleeding profusely. I knew to tie a tournequit around the leg to prevent this person from losing too much blood before the medics arrived on the scene and he was able to pull through.
-1	I have struggled with several illness over the years. Panic attacks, surgery, high blood pressure, diabetes, numerous test, and medications with side effects have inspired me to learn as much as I can about health, health care, and medicine.
-1	When I was diagnosed with Epilepsy and learning about the symptoms, what type I had, and how to try to cease them with my medication.
1	I had to let my surgeon know, before I had a hysterectomy,  how much I wanted him to remove and which methods I preferred to use to avoid any form of blood tra n sfusions
-1	I was having back pain. I was told it was just the muscles in my back. I did the exercises I was suppose too. Told the doctor that it was not the muscle because muscles don't popover on movement.
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues is from the TV and family members. Hearing the news about people dying from health reasons has given me information to avoid it from happening to me.
-1	I think these particular questions are for medical professionals not patients who does not take these vitals.
1	A few years ago I had to perform cpr on my daughter after she swallowed a toy and choked. Although I could not retrieve the toy from her throat, I was able to keep her breathing long enough for emergency responders to arrive and aid my daughter. 
-1	Can't really say I have an understanding of health or medical issues. Can say I have been blessed with good health and so have really not needed to. When choosing my life's profession did not choose a medical profession. Can't stand the sight of blood.
-1	I was told by Dr. i was exposed to TB .this was very upsetting not knowing how i could have been exposed. never the less i was happy to know it was founded.
-1	I understand vital signs, EKG's, lab results, allergic reactions, diagnoses, plan of care and treatment options. I also am aware that quality of care is based upon race, gender, and economic status.
-1	I had an MRI  that's had alot of big words I never heard of so I went  online looked up all the words and had a sense of what's going on with me
1	I was having a lot of acid come back up my throat and I realized that it is probably acid reflux. I most likely am right.
-1	I have led a healthy life so I do not have any specific health or medical issues where I needed to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my father was diagnosed with cancer.  We realized there was nothing we could do for him.  We had to depend on the doctors and hope for the best.
1	A few years ago,one of my friends get an arm caught in some machine on his job and thought because the skin had turned deep red,that it would be broken but I told him that most likely it was just a deep burn from friction. And I was right. It wasn't broken and they treated him for a burn .
-1	There has not really been an experience.  I do look up info for certain symptoms or medical things, but nothing serious or dire.
-1	 I have been at work when a client collapsed & CPR had to be administered to save his life. I did the compressions on this man while another person did the breathes
-1	an example of my experience in medicine happened from real life experience and classes i took in school
-1	When I was sick and I didn't know why and I just stayed in bed thinking it would get better and it was just a small issue but my mom forced me to go the the hospital and it was actually a severe situation and requires surgery.
-1	I have read and researched medical issues most of my life. I keep up with the latest health news. Everytime I am given a new prescription I research it to find out the side effects.
-1	I know that I have asthma and my kids have allergies and eczema. I have experience with all of those.
-1	I had a small red patch on my forehead.  After doing some research I felt it might be basal cell but didn't quite has all the characteriests of it.  When I went for my yearly skin exam I talked to my doctor about it.  She too felt it didn't have the characterists of true basal cell and she said to apply a medication for a month and see it it went away (maybe just a patch of rough dry skin).  I told her to just take a sample and send it out rather than waiting a month to see if it went away.  Surprise it came back very early basal cell.  She was really surprised but it was good that it was caught early.  I had it removed and all is good.  So the doctor / patient team works well for me.
-1	I have had many medical issues for the last 35 years of my life. I've had at least 6 surgeries and 2 chronic illness and a heart attack, open heart surgery and more. I feel I have experienced a broad scope of treatment which gives me a fair knowledge of what's going on medically.
-1	Came down with shin cancer conditions a few years ago and had to have surgery to remove the spots. Have had no problems recently.
1	when my diabetes symptoms flared up i used the internet to gather as much information as i possibly could to get better
1	I was told that I had a high risk of blockage in my arteries due to my high cholesterol level. I was given a high percentage number for the blockage. I never reduced my cholesterol level and had a heart attack, as a result.
-1	My knowledge of health issues come from college studies, research and constantly talking to my healthcare provider
-1	When the nurse went to give my mother in law ibuprofen, I objected because I knew that it is aspirin based and she was taking blood thinner s.
-1	I was having awful chest pains and had visited the dr several times only to be told that it was acid reflux when I knew that it was NOT acid reflux.  My symptoms pointed to heart issues and I had to ask to be referred to a heart specialist
-1	When my child was sick and had a fever, I did not immediately bring him to the doctor. When his mucus changed color and became thicker, I was aware of the fact that he needed an antibiotic.  When I explained the issue to my doctor in detail, he asked if I had nursing experience. 
-1	My urine was very dark so I knew I was in renal failure. The Brown colorization allowed me to self diagnose from home from the material I was given at the hospital and allowed me to make the life saving call to the nephrologist to be admitted and placed on dialysis 
-1	there were no life experiences in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	A few years ago I was diagnosed with a serious medical condition that required me to take daily injections. After a few weeks of taking the injections I felt like I was not experiencing the effects of the condition that I was supposed to. So I did some research my own and then went to another doctor for a second opinion. Where I found out that I was misdiagnosed.
-1	When I'm not feeling well, I create my own concoctions and feel better.  Therefore, I have more knowledge of my health than anyone else.
1	I have been responsible for going to the doctor by myself and asking questions to gain knowledge of my health in the past three years. I also study things on my own because I am an aspiring professional athlete.
-1	Right now, there is nothing that comes to mind.  Most exams have been routine and if there was something different, it has been pretty easy to understand.
-1	I got diagnosed with type 1 diabetes last year so I have been in an out of the doctors quite a lot in the past year. I have increased my knowledge of my condition as well as other health conditions. I also am a college student and am majoring in biology so I learn a lot about health and medical issues 
-1	when ii was shot in the head about 21 22 years ago and when i came out of the coma i had to rehabilitate for 2 and a half years is when i demonstrated my knowledge  of health and medical issues
-1	I started having a terrible pain in my knee.  Went to the Dr. right away and was diagnosed with osteoarthritis.
-1	I demonstratede my knowledge of health and wellness when I earned my Associates Degree in Gerentolog In 1996. I graduated from Oakland Community College.  
-1	I haven't really experienced health issues until I had my son who was born stillborn they could not really explained whats happened  to my son which was trust rating because I carried him full the
-1	So far I've no issues with my health, so I can't describe something that I never had, there's nothing to discuss I have no issues do far in my lifetjme.
-1	I know that the doctor will tell you what's wrong with you and lifestyle habits to get in to to change for the better. or other different things you could do to better your changes to living healthy
-1	I go to the doctor and fill out my application on my own. I understand when my doctor gives me diagnosis.
1	i had a cold. i knew i didn't need extra antibiotics and over the counter drugs. i treated it with natural remedies. and i was fine.
-1	When I went to the hospital for the birth of my first child. I had induction then a ceserian section. I was fully prepared. I had read so much about child birth including self delivery.
-1	I can generally understand what's being said because most times I make the doctors explain it to me in lamest terms. But once the doctor came in using a long worded medical term, that just do happened I recently read an article about. So he began to explain it to me I cut him off and started asking resolution questions showing him that I fully understood what he just told me.
-1	when someone at work was having a panic attack I knew the things that were best for the patient to help them slow their heart rate and get them to slow their breathing
-1	I was in a motorcycle wreck and was told I might have a concussion at that I should rest. The doctor had described my injury and because of that I rested and was much better.
-1	I take care of my health, I watch what I eat, I see my doctor on a regular basic, these are the things i do, to better my health.
-1	The one incident that I can recall would have happened about 10 years ago. I had been given a change in BP medication and also a prescription of Januvia. I was NOT diagnosed as diabetic yet, the doctor gave me this medication on an assumption. I asked questions of the doctor and also did research to understand what I was taking and why. Turns out, my questions went unheeded and I should have followed my gut feeling. One medication caused pancreatitis and the other I was allergic to as well causing anaphylactic shock.
-1	Well I was diagnosed with diabetes in 1999 and I know I had to change my eating habits and exercise more so I have been trying but sometimes I mess up and I know that is not good 
-1	My experience with it is basic information and knowledge of heath router class many health management systems have to come up with the same problem with many more than y 
-1	Everyone should pay attention to their health it's very important to know whats going on with their body's.
1	I have suffered from miagrane headaches since my early teens. I have had experience taking various medications and assessing their side effects. I have reacted symptoms and triggers.
-1	I've experienced my family going through health issues. By them sharing the causes and effects I have learned a lot. Also social media shares a plethora of medical knowledge. 
-1	I have really bad allergies and I wanted to know all the available treatments for my allergies. I did extensive research on the internet and other sufferers in order to understand it better 
-1	I have no idea how to calculate percentages on these questions.I usually read WebMD or Google symptoms until I can talk to a nurse or doctor
-1	i have very little experience but i am currently a biology major at the college i attend, helps me to pick up some information from books and assignments other than what mt physician explains to me 
-1	When my father was told he heas a diebetic so then I realized that I have a positive chance of being one to.
-1	Well I really don't understand what you are trying to ask me . But I really don't think I had an experience in my life that actually happened. I just have so much knowledge about health 
-1	BEING DIAGNOSED WITH A DISEASE AND GIVEN A PERSCRIPTION THAT HAD A  $150 CO PAY. I KNEW THERE HAD TO BE SOMETHING ELSE I COULD TAKE SO I WENT ON THE INTERNET AND FOUND SOMETHING I COULD TAKE AND IT HAD A  $10 CO PAY. BEEN ON IT NOW FOR SEVERAL YEARS AND DOCTOR APPROVED IT.
-1	When I was pregnant with my first child. I had no idea what to expect when it was time to give birth. When I was in labor, in the back of my mind I could hear my doctor saying that I have to stay calm or else the baby's heartbeat would drop. I kept taking long deep breaths even though the pain was harsh. I was swaying back and forth, walking back and forth, trying not to tense, trying not to hold my breath. I did all of this because these were stuff that I was told to do by my physician throughout my pregnancy. 
1	I once found a lump in both of my breast that were painful. I knew I needed to go to the doctor so I scheduled an appointment and I found out I needed surgery to remove non-cancerous tumors.
-1	Life itself. U gotta learn how to ask  when u dont know. I am too old to not understand the majority of what it said to me
-1	I am not a doctor but I use common sense and I read to get information in any condition I may have. I also ask other opinions as well as a doctors.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was making food and I cut myself I immediately washed it off and put a bandage on.
-1	i once witness an accident where the victim was passing out and i had to go in to administer CPR to resuscitate him before other first aid could be administer
-1	Knowing that I have diabetes and I have been taking certain medicines because without it my ankles will swole up, and when I go to the pharmacy to pick up my meds and one of them is missing, I immediately call my doctor and ask why the medicine is missing, after they look at my chart they will see that they overlooked it and then they will send e a prescription to the pharmacy. 
-1	After answering the above questions, I'm not sure I know my information like I once thought I did. Gonna have to read up on some info
-1	Once again being a nursing student helps a lot with being able to understand all the diseases in the body
-1	Feeling dizzy, light headed & fainting. My blood level was low due to excessive bleeding during my menstrual cycle. Ultimately I had fibriods, surgery to have them removed
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrate my understand of health and medical issues pertains to my annual analysis of my lab works and comparing them to the previous year
-1	Having a Stroke and schizophrenia,  has changed my knowledge and outlook healthwise.  I have to have many regular doctor's appointments,  as well as a number different medications. 
-1	Doctor said I needed to loose 10 pounds then I would not have to take all the blood pressure medicine I use.
-1	ACTUALLY I DO NOT HAVE  MAJOR MEDICAL KNOWLEDGE SINCE I AM NOT ATTACHED OR ASSIGN UNTO THE TRUE MEDICAL FIELD.
-1	I was having issues with my stomach and pain after I ate, I had a feeling that it was a gallbladder. I spoke to my that Dr I had a the time and he did not believe me. So I had a second opinion. 
-1	Well, I just find out I have Hpv couple years back, which my cell were abnormal. So I went to see my doctor about it and she suggest me to get surgery done.  Than couple years later than my test result come back negative from the Hpv and Cancer.
1	I recently went to the doctor for a dermatology diagnosis about my flacks.  The doctor believes that it is psoriasis.  I have a family history of skin issues and have inflammation problems in the past so knowing that allowed me to cater my diet and lifestyle to manage this condition.
-1	I'm not sure of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	When taking the blood pressure and respirations of a co-worker by following the instructions of a first responder. 
-1	I don't have extensive knowledge of medical issues. So I wouldn't really be able to speak on it. But I know a bit about my own health problems and I learned those from the dr and nurses. 
-1	One experience of that demonstrated my knowledge in health is when I began to have weight problems. This encouraged me to start reading more on health and causes of medical issues. 
-1	I have no knowledge of health or medical issues. I just don't understand all the complicated medial terminology. Also, I am just dumb.
-1	I have had few serious medical issues outside of the common cold and eczema. I have done research on other family members who may have experienced more serious conditions to better understand their condition.
-1	in having a medical surgery. had to make sure the consequences were understood risk factors, have a will in place. had ro make sure i understood the day to day care after procedure amount of meds o take when 
-1	I see my physician twice a year so, currently, I have no known health issues at the moment. I am in good shape. 
-1	A experience in my life that demonstrated I had knowledge of health issues would be when I was taking health class and I got a cold and I knew what was happening to me because I had that class.
-1	it helped me a lot but i did not like this quiz because i dont think it is fair to judge based off my answers
-1	I got diagnosed with chrons disease i knew automically that my life would change.So i made sure i changed my diet just like my doctor said 
-1	My mom developed cancer in 2009. She had a severe struggle at first but she got through it and now she is a 5 year survivor 
1	I have very limited knowledge of health issues aside from having babies and children I've never had any major health issues
-1	I attend nursing school. I am currently enrolled in microbiology, and have taken chemistry, organic chemistry, and Human Anatomy.
-1	I haven't had any medical issues but have had many clients with tons of medical issues from me to go to diabetes to myostis. I've seen it all
-1	I honesty don't know any instance that would demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issue. I just try and eat more vegetables,work out, and stop making excuses. So I can live a full life.
-1	in an oportunity, my children take him ball and brook his skin. i was very anxious but i goals to look my phone and call to hospital and i drive with my children. he were very sad 
1	I don't think I have a particular experience in my life that really demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues super strongly.
-1	I had to have my cervical spine redone. I had a few complications as a result and it has helped me understand what many medicines do and the effect they have on the body.
-1	When the doctor explained why a cholecystectomy was needed. The type of surgery and how it would be performed as well home care afterwards.
-1	There is no such experience. I am in perfect health. There has been no medical scare. That's all I have right now. 
-1	I really do not have any major experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I actually at this moment can't think of a moment that my life demonstrated knowledge of health issues
-1	I can't demonstrate an experience from the past that would be an example of how my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	My doctor makes sure that I recap information given to me back to her and she helps confirm whether the information was properly received or not
-1	Being pregnant, having an unhealthy diet, and changing my exercising habits caused me to learn about certain conspiracies behind the medical field that I decided to place faith in that. 
1	had gas pains for several days, on the third day went to the ER to discovery I have a blood clot in my lungs
1	When a youngster started excessively salivating and complaining about throat closing up, I knew this individual was having anaphylaxis ( bad reaction to food or an allergen). 
-1	At one time I was told that l had high cholesterol I was frighten at first until I was put on some meds for the problem. 
-1	I'm a hydrocondriac so I do a lot of research online because I'm constantly worrying about mine. It really sucks 
-1	I really didn't have experience with my health I had a Leep done once I really don't remember it I was young
-1	I get my regular checkups as well as my yearly mammogram. Make sure that my husband has his regular and yearly checkups as well 
-1	Once my grand mother had an open sore onbher foot and it began swelling. I told her tgatvwas a sign of diabetes. She was tested for diabetes and had come to find out that she was a type II diabetic
-1	I was playing basketball and have had history of tendinitis and during one play I heard a pop and fell and worried that I injured my patella tendon I went to ER. Later had MRI and confirmed I ruptured my patella tendon
-1	I suffered high blood pressure when pregnant. While I had never experienced this before even outside of pregnancy I knew immediately that my symtpoms were related to blood pressure and took was able to take immediate action to subside symtpoms before I could get to a doctor
-1	My parents both have had very serious medical issues. I father has had a triple-double bypass. My mom had a heart attack. They both smoked cigarettes. 
-1	I have been hospitalized two times in the past five years for a week at a time.  During that period I was able to question nurses and aids about how things worked.
-1	I haven't personally had an experience that required me to demonstrate my knowledge. I have completed lab exercises and calculated dosages of medication but never had any real issues.
-1	I dint really have any experience I mean I do work in the healt care girls I just make appts at my job at the front desk 
-1	I know that everything is good, and when i need to go into the doctor then i will besides the fact that i get sick i rather take care of everything myself at home
-1	Earlier this year, I was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. However, during the past four years I struggled with mental health issues and did research regarding my symptoms.  By doing this, I gained insight on my condition.
-1	I recently experienced vertigo.  I was so puzzled because I knew something was wrong so I started by eliminating all the possible things that would not be the cause and tried to remember from health knowledge what would be the  proper diagnosis.  I succeed in getting the diagnosis correct.
1	A couple of years back, I fell when I was running on the treadmill and I scraped my leg. I knew to put ointment on the scab and put a gauze over it to help it heal, and I repeated for a week. I also continued to eat healthy and I noticed how quickly I healed and was back in the gym in no time.
1	My dad was having a diabetic episode his blood sugar was really low. I got him so orange juice and made sure that he didn't choke on it while he was drinking it
-1	I cant remember a specific time.  this question doesnt merit the reward given for it.  so i wont dignify this question with the effort it needs.
-1	When they will say something is there and then it's not there it gets kinda annoying to asking a bunch of questions then not to be answered on most of them 
-1	Exercise is essential to promote good bone health  before and after hip replacement surgery to strengthen the bones
-1	I was discussing my health with my practitioner and was given information about diabetes.  The information was in depth and I understood it completely.
-1	i have high blood pressure and the hospital took me off of 1 of them because i told them something didn;t feel right and of course it was making my blood pressure elevate more
-1	I was bitten by a spider and had to change the gauge on my leg so with the proper amount of liquid drops they gave me I can change it easily
-1	I am very familiar with taking my own blood pressure.  I know that there are two reading systolic and diastolic.
-1	as a teenager i knew i had heat exhaustion when i temporarily blacked out on the beach. near the end of a pregnancy  i knew something was wrong when i began bleeding heavily. when i woke up once covered with hives i knew i had some kind of issue.
1	i do not have any specific experience to relate but i do understand when i am told of any health issues that i might have what it means and how to treat it with proper diet and exercise and approriate medication when necessary
-1	I had little knowledge about health but i asked alot of questions until i understand what the doctor or nurse is saying to me 
-1	i dont unstand it but i migth in a yesr go bye it take me along time to see the proble i slow to under stand the prolbe  is
-1	my father  had  colon  cancer and  my mother had  high sugar  so i  know  allittle about that suff  i  have  aheart murmer and  i  havehigh  colestrol
-1	I don't have no health issue except herniated disc,bone spur, and arthritis in my neck. So I guess I do have health issues.
-1	My experiences came down to my family members, i.e. my Dad, Mom and my husbands that have had health challenges.  I made sure I was kept abreast of what was going on.
-1	I amck not sure I have one but my husband kept having pains but he said it wasn't his heart. He would go lay down and he said that stopped the pain. This went on for about 2 months and then he was having one and I told him to go to ER and he said no. He was driving a truck at the time and he was due to leave later night when the pain came back. he wanted me to take him ccktco the truI will take you to the ER.ccc
-1	I can't think of a situation in which I've needed to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	Never really had to show knowledge of this. Ive never had an issue where something bad has happened where someone needed help medically
-1	I know almost nothing about medical issue. I usually Google on the Internet or ask a nurse. It always seems complicated
-1	Not many I have not had any major surgeries or a life threatening diseases. The only thing I have is low heart rate.
1	Once, my grandmother was having extreme sciatic nerve pain and I helped her ease it with my knowledge of helpful exercises.
-1	I have a family history of diabetes,heart attacks and other problems and it has made me what to know what i will be geting into as i get older and my health starts to change.
1	I was at the doctor's office getting a check up and he said I have high blood pressure. I asked if that meant the pressure was between a certain amount and he said yes. 
-1	having a chronic heart condition i have had so many test and proceedures that i am well aware of the medical issues that i face 
1	I have a master's level degree in the healthcare field as well as years of professional experience in both the public and private sectors of healthcare.
1	I had to think about them. I was never good at story problems in school and they made me think.  Not many of them seem to have real world applications though.
1	Diagnosis of hyperthyroidism in which I had to research the condition, learn how to maintain good health, and find support.
-1	when i learned about a friend who has MS. i was married, to this friend. also another time when i studied about bi polar disorder. i've learned a lot over the years.
-1	I have undergone several tests. I have been in the hospital for a seizure. I have been having fainting spells
-1	I had an allergic reaction to a topical cream and i stopped using it.  I called my doctor and informed her of this and scheduled an appointment to reevaluate my prescription. 
-1	I study hard in medical school and did rotations to prepare for my state   board exam and graduated with honors my subjects that I studied pharmacology,  philanthropy,  medicine , gynocolgy , nutrition and allot more
-1	I cant really answer this questioned like im suppose to because i cant recall any experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues 
-1	I had to have a Total knee replacement and research all information for the procedure.  I researched the information before the procedure, and what would happen during, and after.
-1	Helping my mom recover from a stroke and going to,school,for medical assisting at same time. I was able,to explain to her how,important it was to check her sugar so her diabetes doesn't get worse
-1	I WAS OVER-WEIGHT AND MY BLOOD PRESSURE WAS RELATIVELY HIGH. I LOST 64 POUNDS IN A YEAR AND MY BLOOD PRESSURE IS GOOD.
-1	As I got passed my 39!!things started to get sick but as long as I take my medicine I will be alright. Thank god for the doctors.
-1	Was in a CPR class and had to perform on a dummy opened his mouth to give him mouth to mouth and start chest compressions and after a few attempts the man start responding 
1	My daughter had to be sent to the hospital for reactive airway disease. That then shifted to asthma a year later.
-1	When i was pregnant with both of my children i knew a little more than i thought when i went to see my obgyn
-1	knowing that a resident gave me something that the chart and my wristband say I'm allergic to.  this has happened more than once.
-1	I do not get depressed.  I look forward to each new morning. My spouse has many medical issues for which I am aware.
-1	I have had many medical issues through out my life and have to learn them and deal with them. That is all the experience with health 
-1	My son started swearing profusely outside on a hot day while playing basketball.  His face was red and he began to vomiting.  I knew he was having a heat stroke.
-1	I have been a cna for 19 years and a cma for 5 years. I have also helped all my family with their medical issues
-1	Well I had hyperthyroidism at one point for years and didn't know what it was, and the doctor told Mess less info instead of more, so I got a second opinion, and did some research myself, and changed my eating habits and exercised more.
-1	I had a breathing and walking rest done to check my asthma level. And I did great.I was also told that I have really bad allergies 
-1	was going to have a laparoscopic Partial hysterectomy. I googled the procedure and watched it on youtube. I was able to ask my DR if she was going to use small blue cup that will fit over the bladder so it would not be punctured during the surgery. 
-1	Whenever I'm prescribed a new medication, I always ask about the side affects, so I know when to notify my doctor of complications 
-1	I have had over 12 operations on my arteries, hysterectomy, and several broken bones and 2 children with one being a breech birth.
-1	I have worked in several group homes with clients with different diagnosis. I would have to read up on each client before being introduced to them. I have also had to take med classes to understand the meds they were taking
-1	I have had two knee replacements so I know what its like to have medical concerns and what's its like to worry about issues concerning my health
-1	I was told I may need an angioplasty procedure for Coronary Artery Disease.  The ballooning procedure would allow a stent to be deposited. It is left behind to keep the vessel open.  Even for the positive affects, there can be life threatening results.  Stenosis can re-occur.  You also need blood thinners for the rest of your life, which also has adverse affects.  I am choosing at this time to do all of the health and exercise changes and be checked along the way. 
-1	So far my experience in life was when I was pregnant with my children I was never full no matter what I ate, I always complaining that I'm hungry.
-1	I had to do additional research when I was told about Chrons and ulcers. I'm not saying I'm an expert on these things. However, I did thorough research to learn all I could about it. 
1	I have multiple sclerosis.  I don't get a choice but to learn a lot about health issues.  My form is progressive rather than remitting and relapsing, and in addition I have two other disabilities.  I've learned to read medical journals and occasionally know more about neurological drugs and their side effects than some medical professionals in related fields.  This is a common occurrence.
-1	In high school I took a health class. They were very thurough with explain signs and cues for certain illnesses and conditions. She really helped me out a lot.
-1	A tingling rash appeared on my waistline and I had a gut feeling it could be shingles yet I had received the shingles vaccine a year previously.  I researched it on line, and got in to see my doctor in time to get started on medication before it got really severe. 
1	One of my friends was recently taken to the hospital with a broken hip.  She also has many other medical conditions, I was immediately called in to help navigate the system and speak with all of the medical providers
-1	i have a nurse for a mother and i also read a lot so i think that i am pretty knowledgeable on certain things
-1	I always demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues because I usually research the condition or issue I need to research.
1	math questions are hard when you have to read the questions it would be easier if every thing was writen out for you
1	Guess it would have to be my last brush with a medical problem. Had right lung that decided to not work anymore & deflated. Spent 8 days in hospital and went through extensive tests & other treatments before every thing was corrected. Did learn a lot about the lung functions & how to try & ensure it doesn't happen again.
1	I am able to get information from my dad and my relatives, who are doctors, to get my own opinion on the subject.
-1	My mom and I seen a mole on my dad's back that didn't look right, we told him to have it checked.  My dad told his doctor, the doctor said it was fine.  We still were not convinced, so the doctor had it biopsied to humor us, it wound up being melanoma.  Had he not done that it's hard telling what would have happened to my dad.
-1	 Recognizing my family tendency towards the osteoporosis I have always tried to digest as much protein vitamin D and get enough sunshine to fight this condition on a regular basis.
-1	 My oldest child has eczema, around 1 year old his eczema spread. I suspected food allergies and after testing we found out I was right
-1	I went to school to become a medical assistant. Graduated at the top of my class and worked at a hospital 
-1	I am a nurse, so I would like to think that I have a pretty good medical knowledgem, so I would say I demonstrate this every day when taking care of my patients.
-1	i found out that i had cancer so i started to read up on all  the medical stuff i could find so that i could try and beat the cancer and win back my health
-1	I have had health issues all my life and have had many tests and procedures performed on me. About 2008 I did my own research & discovered that I could have Fibromyalgia. I took this information to my doctor and he performed another test confirming my findings.
1	I don't really have anything that would classify for this, so I don't know what I should put here. I don't have anything else to put here.
-1	In 2007 I got sick, I lost 60 lbs in 3 months, I could barely walk, had fluid on my lung, After many tests and almost losing my home I found out I had SLE LUPUS
1	"I use a book called ""Taking Care of Yourself"" and I've avoided many trips to the doctor by using it as a reference. "
-1	knee sometimes gives out when walking but I realize this is from an ongoing cyst in the back of the knee
-1	I had cancer.. almost 5 years ago.. so I went for chemo and radiation.. and being strong.. having family and friends is important.. and eating right.. and going to the doctor as told for regular check ups to keep on top of it and healthy
-1	When my mother was broke out all over her back and legs and arms, and stomach , I looked at the situation closely and I looked on the internet to see what type of illness it was she had and I found the answer to the problem and then told her to go to her regular doctor to get medication
1	I helped care for my mother when she was recovering from lung cancer surgery and during her final month and a half of life. I also raised two kids and have participated in treatment of various illnesses for myself and my husband over the years.
-1	I have been through a much of things. I still want more knowledge to make life better. I'm sick of having to deal with seizures.
-1	Never had to answer these questions - don't even think it is fair to ask them I went for cataract surgery told anesthesiologist that am medicine sensitive - take dose for 6 yr old - ignored me. Came out of surgery, went home and yelled at my spouse how he lost my cataract kit. - went to dr for one.  2 wks later found it on a shelf to the basement - didn't know I put it there - told opthamalogist - he told me that this anes. causes memory loss. I know my body so next eye was done with no anes. Ditto for allergies to formaldehyde,broke out, could not breath - same for albuterol etc. 
-1	I have had extensive medical training in school and that's my best feat of knowledge when it comes to medical things
1	I woke up one day and my whole left side was tingling like it was asleep.  I thought right away that I might have had a mild stroke.  I went to my doctor and through testing by him went for more extensive testing at Mayo Clinic where it was found that I had a mild stroke.
-1	I HONESTLY DONT KNOW WHAT YOU ARE ASKING I HAVE HAD ALOT OF EXPERIENCES IN HEALTH ISSUES BUT I DONT KNOW WHAT TO SAY
-1	I hav e a too much chlorine problem.  I got a filter for my water and that helped.  Just lately, I found out that they wash peeled baby carrots with chlorine water before packaging them.  I quit eating them.  Got real sick.  Fell better now.  Watch them veggies!
-1	 had a blood clot explode inside my head, & when i finally went back to work, i had to everybody what had happened, i was air lifted 3 x@ via helicopter, was in a coma 7 days
1	just surviving different diseases and medical issues and being curious and wanting to be informed.i prefer to make informed decisions in all areas of life,including medical decisions.
-1	I work as a nurse so therefore I know medical terms so I'm  confident in my knowledge of medical issues
-1	when i had cancer cells on my cervix ,i was scared to death .Next time is when i had a kidney stone and was pregnant with my son ,
-1	having to determine to what extent I would be delving into my own healt and wellness treatment in my 40's 
-1	when my daughter got sick with mono and strep and no one could figure out what was wrong with her but i said to test for mono and it came out positive.
-1	other than my current or families conditions, informational resource is my only knowledge base. on-line or doctor explainations is only history
-1	I have had my medicine changed several times so I have to be precise on dosages.I have also had to learn side effects of certain medication. I have high blood pressure so I have to cut down on salt.
-1	i don't have any answer i just tried my best to answer what i could...why does that really matter anyway?
-1	there hasnt been any specific thing, I think I have a general knowledge just through life experiences like having children, having surgeries, and just general research of things im curious about
-1	I don't really know I have had a lot of data and that's when i would get surgery and stuff and then they would tell me what's going on  
-1	The fact I knew I was diabetic. I had gestational diabetes and my doctor just said I was borderline. No. I know what the symptoms are.
1	Both my father and my first wife died of cancer. My mom died of heart problems after two operations. I recently had a minor MI but did no muscle damage to my heart. My second wife is a retired nurse.
-1	I have no k owledge so that's why pick a grate dr for me and they know what's is best for me in picking the right Meds for me
-1	Well, I hae been in hosspitals and doctor off a lot lately so I have had a lot of practice with talking to doctors, reading medical material, etc.
-1	When i was sick i knew what to do.  I got tea medicine and cough drops.  I ate chicken noodle soup and crackers and dry toast.  I felt better in two days.
-1	I don't think that I know that much about health or anything like that. I'm fairly clueless about health.
-1	watch alot of medical shows and use to work in medical field. there is nothing else. and any other way i know more about medical knowledge and health information.
-1	I studied a little in the medical field, and a friend of mine had extreme pain on his right side. I told him to see a doctor, because I thought it was appendicitis, and it turns out it was.
-1	i'm not quite sure i have ever done this, but i do sometimes explain scenes of grey's anatomy and i pretend to be mcdreamy and i say 'ten blade'
-1	I was diagnosed with major depression at age 16 along with anorexia and have suffered from mental health issues a ever since so I have been forced to learn a lot about mental health and the way society and the country treat people with such illnesses
1	My husband exhibited some symptoms and after research I felt he had Parkinsons and got him to his doctor.  I was correct.
-1	I didn't really know a lot of the stuff.  I just know how to do basic things like bandaids and stuff like that.  The more injured I get, the less I know 
-1	sometimes  I had pain on he back under my neck, and it`s strong pain , and I can not move my head, after many times, I figure out it`s stress pain, just I take vitamin B and every thing will be ok 
-1	I don't have anything to say ai though I did take care of my mother in law when she had surgery and her nurse said that if I wanted to be a nurse she would recamend me
-1	Working in a nursing home. Caring for my grandma that was in hospice and my brother in law. And now caring for my mom and my new born granddaughter that has downs syndrome 
-1	Really little or none.  My mother had many health problems so I learned a lot because of that and most of the rest was learned from books, news articles or what doctors have told me.
-1	I have bad migraine headaches and I had to explain to my doctor the symptoms and signs of these headaches.
-1	At a restaurant many years ago my friend starting choking on a piece of hot dog. I used my knowledge of choking to give him the himlick maneuver and help him.
-1	When i took my grandpa to the doctor. He didnt understand the doctors wording and then i explained it to him more on his level and he understood.
1	  Ijust broke my shoulder 6 weeks ago.  Since Ihad broken my arm when   Iwas 4, , even though I don't remember the incident, my instincts took over.  My sister had picked up my arm and when the feeling of it being broken scared her, she permanently dislocated my arm.  So this time. I knew to cradle it and not attempt to use it.  Irealized that Iwould have 2 muster up some exstraordinary patience for the long haul and teach my boyfriend how to work.  we started with cooking lessons 1  He is now ready to retire again, lo!
-1	the only exprerience i have is being a patient for many many years. there is no other medical experience that i have
-1	I'm a self thought  health and medical issues that pop up and do research.  I'll do my best to find an answer.
1	Im not sure that i could actually think of an instance. I don't really ever pretend to know anything.
-1	When I had mersa I've learned alot about it how to keep from getting it where you can get it how to treat it 
1	I was diagnosed with cancer and found myself sitting with surgeons, oncologists, radiologists, etc.  I certainly learned a lot of medical speaking during this time.  It was very important for me that I have someone else with me to help me remember what was actually said.
1	Many times when I have gotten a fever, I stay in bed and sweat it out rather than seeing a doctor for it. And I am not sure how to answer this question
-1	Mother of 5 children. Many dr visits, and paperwork. I don't know any thing other than being a patient. I don't feel I am real knowledgeable. 
-1	Nothing that I can think of at this moment.  I have always seen my doctor recularly so I am pretty sure I know what problems I have or might have in the future
-1	I don't know of any instances in my life where I was presented with a need to demonstrate knowledge of medical issues.
-1	when i was going to the hospital with my brother to help him understand what the doctor was telling him.
-1	Thanks again for the baby was born yesterday and today we have been talking about your experience with the light bill was paid for this position and would love you so much for your help with your company and we will have the money is not working with you and your family and friends and family
1	Severe stomach pain and constant vomiting for extended period of time led me to the emergency room where I was later found to have complete bowel blockage due to Crohns Disease.
-1	While there was a time of doing exercise in or outside taking time to have enough fuel and fluids to not get dehydrated, and taking time in when needed for rest to maintain health.
-1	I just experience the pain and you just know but I don't have much knowledge on myself as far as medical problems to diagnose. 
-1	none of the Cosby show season with salt and great to hear from you soon after a long day and I am sure you are should I say that the 
1	I use the health knowledge everyday with physical activity and the foods I eat. Like going to the doctors office to get work physicals.
-1	Have to take sugar every day and make it's the right numbers and then take medication to to held control sugar 
-1	When I was in a car accident I had to get some emergency surgery on my right ankle. With replacing my ankle bone with two plates and four screws.
-1	When i was taking care of my great grandma in was she got critically ill and pass away for old age and her heaven gates open up
-1	Taking all the medical classes offered in high school helped increase my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	when i was diagnoised with asthma. being that i had asthma i learn different medications and the severity of my asthma.
1	I don't feel I have knowledge, I feel I have the ability to research questions or information. My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. The doctor gave her a lot of information. I researched the information so I could better understand and explain to my parents. I didn't have any knowledge, just the ability to look for the explanation. I also am always looking up the CBC test results, just saying I'm with-in acceptable range is never enough for me.
-1	When i was having. Children i knew about having c- sections because i had to have them .so I looked it up to fund out what i had the procedure was and what can happen .
-1	i went to boarding school and some of my friends frequently got sick when the health center was closed. i would ususally help take care of them with basic medical practices.
-1	I was diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis in 2001. I have kept up with my doctor's recommendations regarding medications he has recommended.
-1	I really don't have much knowledge because I don't have any medical or health issues. I feel that I am healthy and only go to the hospital rarely because I don't have  any conditions 
1	I had a sinus issue that led me to believe I was having other symptoms and I correctly diagnosed the problem before seeking medical attention
-1	I diagnosed that I had a hernia on my hip area. I looked it up before I arrived at the doctor office 
-1	I'm not sure what your looking for, I have high blood pressure and high colesteroral not sure of the spelling
-1	I only understand health and medical issues if a Dr. explains them to me or if by some miracle there is a chart that explains each area of nutrition in detail. Reading labels tells me the amount of food calories etc that we are allowed to eat to maintain a healthty lifestyle. Any other information I would have to look it up online
-1	Because years ago I had a stress test. And it came back normal with a little scary news. But at the end it all turned out to be good news.
1	I do not have an experience besides just knowing what is wrong with me based on my previous experiences just being sick.
-1	My sister period never stop , and every doctors she went through told her she was fine . Until she want back to Haiti and see someone else 
-1	My health is great Nun but high blood pressure and try to eat the rite food and take my medicine rite
1	I am presently having trouble with abnormal menstrual cycles with heavy bleeding. In  efforts to resolve this issue,  I have had two vaginal ultrasounds, and have went in for a biopsy to get tested for endometritis.  The issue is being treated with birth control and being monitor. If issue cannot be contained,  then a d&c will be needed. 
-1	 I had a   Mammogram  they found a mass in my breast  but they said I needed too have a  biopsy  i'm really confused about the biopsy 
1	i had to go to the hospital without my parents and it was wild bu ti mostly understood what they wanted from me so i sort of proud of myself
-1	I can't describe an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues because I never had to. 
-1	when i  was hospitalized during the year of 2001 having to file my own documents further by having to file peperwork for my spouse as well
-1	I was told to take a specified does of medicine for a specified number of weeks. I did it and the problem went away.
-1	I can take my own blood pressure. I know when my blood pressure is up headache dizzy or weak. I know whwn to take myself to ER
-1	As a Home healthcare provider, you are knowledge about certain medical issues, becasuse of the clients they you deal with.
-1	I have gone through a series of tests to get checked for a hormonal imbalance. After tests, labs I found out i was normal. Yet i still have they same problems as last year 
1	One time a friend was choking while we were eating at Applebee's. I have learned how to do the Heimlich maneuver online, so I instantly sprang from my seat and started heaving their stomach.
-1	When I found out I had food and environmental allergies, and high blood pressure. I realized that serious changes had to happen with my eating habits and exercise. Drugs can help but positive changes would make the best difference.  
-1	I have not had an experience in my life that I had to demonstrate my knowledge  of health or medical issues 
-1	I guess it the one where I had a broken leg and was never informed by the doctor. After two years of having some over the top pain. The broken leg was never treated and therefore the hip suffered my trauma. Because of missed diagnois I am no in need of a hip replacement.
-1	My stomach would pain as I bend and I realize I had fibroids the pain was not bad but I realize there was something wrong
1	I can't think of one specific situation that demonstrates my knowledge of health-related issues. The fact that I am healthy, active and satisfied with the way my body performs is enough for me.
-1	Well through web MD is where I get my information very informative and o gets a lot of game from them
-1	I tend to get medication refill and I know a lot about medication that has been prescribe to me. I do research on medications when they have been prescribed to me.  
-1	MY EX HUSBAND SUFFERED FROM A STROKE AND I CALL 911 TO GET THE ABULANCE TO GET HELP FOR HIM AND THEY CAME AND GOT HIM TO THE HOSPITAL BEFORE IT WAS TOO SERIOUS
-1	An experience that shows my knowledge of health issues would be during a tests in high school based off of common sense of medical issues 
-1	You she is YouTube and the mother and mother the same way with the kids and she came back together and she has to come out and 
-1	my experience in life that has demonstrated my knowledge in health and medical issues would be my own experience with my medical issues being I have had 3 heart surgeries, and my families medical issues, and my mom being a nurse. 
-1	When my grandfather was passssing away I would help to take care of him at the hospital by brushing his teeth and cleaning 
-1	I have had a lot of negative experiences based on that. But I am trying to eat healthier to be healthier 
-1	I've been in the hospital a fee times.  My boyfriend also went to school for nursing so he's very knowledgeable on the subject.  I learn a lot from him actually.
-1	i think i know a little about medical issues i know what a lot people knows but i tried to find information if i need it
1	I had a sister who passed away many years ago from congenital heart disease so I grew up learning  about the disease.
-1	My mother has gone through several health issues over the past couple of years. I have gained much knowledge during her crazy medical journey.
-1	I have taken courses in college that were towards the medical field. These courses have helped me relate to real people and real health problems. 
-1	When my father was diagonise with cancer.   The knowledge on had help me to care for him and know a little of what was happening to him.
1	I have had thyroid problems for years. I also have two children, one who is sick often because of asthma and allergies. 
-1	TOO MUCH STYLE TO BEAR THE EVERYDAY LONG ACCOUNT OF SIMPLE ACORDE OF BEST STRICT IN THE FOLLOWING INSTANCE OF SO MUCH INSTRUCTION TO FOLLOW
-1	A couple years ago I had an abnormal mammogram and had to have a biopsy done. When the results came back I researched them to find out exactly what they ment. 
-1	I knew before anyone else did that my son was suffering from autism, not delay, not regression but severe autism. I wish to God I was proved wrong, but I wasnt.
-1	I don't have no experience with a medical issue since I only had a few and I know more about them to know that I need help and wish I could get the right treatment to work
-1	Never really had any real major medical issues. So I really can't answer this question. I glad I can't answer this question
-1	I had hodgkins lymphoma for 4 years so I learned a lot about that type of cancer. I researched a lot so I could understand it fully. Researched all my chemo drugs and everything with that as well. Had two transplants as well.
1	I have high cholesterol that is a genetic problem so I have to go and get my cholesterol checked frequently and monitor it. I exersize and eat well and eventually will have to go on medication. 
-1	The experience in my life that demonstrated my knowldge of health or medical issues is vast because my family had some medical cases
-1	My husband had a heart attack, then colon cancer then pancreatic cancer from which he ultimately died. He had two stents after his heart attack. He had radiation therapy and chemotherapy which he had a bad reaction to.  All of this in the course of 14 months. I was with him for every appointment and procedure.
-1	When i was diagnosed with hypothyroidism. I have learned over the years this can be easily corrected by diet exercise and getting your hormones in balance. Sometimes medicine is necessary but I have also found that taking armour thyroid is much more effective than taking synthyroid because armour also has T3 and synthryoid does not. 
-1	I am not a doctor and other than getting sick I don't have a great understand of medical issues. This survey makes me think that you need doctors to fill out this survey. This is a insane survey
-1	I try to take care of myself.  I have a physical yearly mammogram yearly and a women's physical.  I try to eat healthy and get excerise
1	My mother had had diabetes since a young child. I have learned how to check and monitor blood glucose as well as giving insulin shots to maintain my mother's blood glucose levels in severe situations. I learned from a young age how to determine if her blood sugar was low and what to do in those situations
-1	I am sure I know I have knowledge about medical issues that I can explain and demonstrate a good Idea and explain my problems I am having to my doctor
1	I am pretty accurate in being able to figure out if someone has a cold verses having a sinus infection based on what parts of their face or their ears hurt at a given point in time. 
1	I get cluster headaches and most neurologists aren't educated in what the differences are between cluster headaches and migraines.  I also have Mnire's disease and went to a neurotologist, he had no knowledge of cluster headaches and I have to explain to him why they are different than migraines. 
-1	I almost had a heart attack one. When I thought I wasn't going to graduate. But I've moved passed that
1	the only thing I can relate this question to is knowing my own body. I know when to seek medical advise right away and when to wait a reasonable period of time to see if the symptom wanes.
-1	Im having a hard time thinking of one fpr myself.  Recently my granddaughter had febrile seizures spent the morning at the er. Lot of information to understand 
-1	I have taken classes that were suited specifically for disabled students from first grade through high school.
-1	I used to work at a nursing home. After every meal we had to keep track of how much they ate and drank with percentages and milliliters. We had to sit and calculate exactly how much they have eaten and how much they drank and chart it in the kiosk.
1	Right now, my husband and I are going through the autism screening process with our eight year old son. My general knowledge has helped me when answering many of the potentially more confusing questions in several of the seemingly endless evaluations we have been completing as of late.
1	When I became sexually active, I knew I needed to see a doctor. After being diagnosed with an STD, I asked for all possible outcomes and treatments and have since gone in to follow up procedures twice in the past year. 
-1	walking from the bank,and started shaking really bad couldn,t walk any more passed out after crossing the street with my husband woke up in the hospital.
-1	I had a biopsy the other week that one procedure that I do not like it's very painful and they don't give you no anesthesia or anything just starts nipping
1	Knowing that it was needed to see a doctor when breathing issues could not be cleared up by over the counter products and would likely be pneumonia and even worse, as it was.
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues when somebody asked me about how you deal with surgery and your emotional well being after the surgery. I explained that everyone is different and even though you are hurting always look for the positive in everything.
-1	"This is a confusing questions, it's either not worded correctly it or means something completely different than I think it does but I am serverly over weight and doctors have been telling me to lose weight for years but the doctor I had 7 years ago never mentioned anything about my weight and that was the first time in my life that I said to myself ""I'm going to lose weight!"" And I did! I lost 100 pounds, my doctor never told me I needed to lose weight, just that she was proud of me for making the choice myself and she has found that a doctor can't make someone lose weight just by telling them they have to, the person had to want to. But I lost my health insurance due to the new Marketplace health insurance deal and I couldn't do to the doctors anymore, I have started gaining weight back. I realize that I need someone with me encouraging me and giving me ideas on what I can do like my doctor did without forcing it onto me. "
-1	I do not understand these above questions as I am not a medical profesional. I was not taught to count calories or read labels correctly
-1	Out camping with my family, one of my grandchildren happens to get a insect sting but we are not sure the type of insect is was. This grandchild is extremely allergic to bee and wasps, I have experience with this because of my background and was able to inject her with the epi-pen and keep her safe.
1	i knew i was allergic to aspirin in my 20's as i had taken it over a two month period on three occassions do to a headache and had a very significant reaction, that intensified each time i took the aspirin
-1	I took medical classes all through high school, and also took many college courses in the medical field. I also work as a CNA in a nursing home.
-1	I was having trouble urinating and  I  contacted my doctor and he told that I had a swollen prostate.   I looked up the symptoms and I immediately took action.
-1	If you take care of your breast or eat the right foods the possibility of breat cancer is heighten. To a higher risk of exposure
-1	I think I know quite a bit about my health over all but I real like that I do not know so much of it
-1	I recently had a UTI. I need it was one, because of the burning when I p ee and the pain in my kidneys. 
-1	When I broke my knee and it did not heal right and they had to bore holes into my knee to make new cartilage grow.
1	There was a time when I went to the doctor believing that I had the flu, only to be told that it was simply a common cold. But after listing off the symptoms I was experiencing, the physician agreed with my assessment. 
-1	MY MOM WORKED AS A NURSE AND I WORKED AS A NURSE'S AIDE A SHORT TIME. MY DAUGHTER HAD AN BREATHING ATTACK DUE TO POLLEN IN THE AIR. 
-1	I once had a fever of 102.7.  It was late at night and I didn't want to chance driving myself to the hospital. I took Tylenol and gave myself an alchol bath. By morning my fever was gone.
-1	I acquired a skin infection and I am diabetic. Because I didn't get treatment initially, I had sepsis. After emergency surgery I was hospitalized in a nursing home for 2 1/2 months.
-1	My career as a patient coordinator and surgical assistant, and my own health battles have enabled me to learn a great deal about health care. I cannot exclude caring for close friends and relatives as well. 
-1	Had many ill family members growing up. My sister was in and out of hospitals all her life so I gave first experience with dealing with health and medical issues. 
-1	learning health related issues in a health class, high school or college, maybe even in elementary school, even at home from parents conversations.
1	I sprained my ankle one time and I was aware of how to tie and rest my ankle using the proper techniques such as rest, ice, compression, and elevation.
-1	i dont think i have to much knowledge on the subject. but i am willing to learn. i am watching the lion king wishing i had a drink as usual,
-1	I would have a terrible headache and backache and I could not place the cause however after a couple of hours of pain and ache I decided to take the next step and take some pain medicine as well as consult my local doctor and pharmacists about what the symptoms could mean and what I could do to the crease my pain while maintaining my work ethic
1	When I was issued with high blood pressure. I could already tell I already had high blood pressure without a reading because of the side effects I was having.
-1	I cured diabetes byreading the internet. I exercised more ate rihht took herbs got off siger. Now my blood sugar dtaus at 90
-1	Well I have seziures so I know quite a lot about what cause it and what I can do to prevent it. I study on my condition so I wouldn't be in the unknown
-1	When I couldn't breathe for the longest when I went to the doctors she told me I had asthma and it was really bad to the point my lungs where half way  closed 
-1	I wanna be the best I can be because if I'm not what would I live for I think you do things in your life to survive.
-1	I was given a diagnosis that was contrary to what I have already looked up on the topic concerning the symptoms and it turned out to be what I had expected.
-1	I went to the doctor's office because I was experiencing headaches. Tests were done and it was determined that I was suffering from the affects of having high blood pressure.
-1	I don't remember any because it was too many years ago. I rarely have any medical issues that i had to be informed about an5 health issues
-1	I am an asthmatic. I suffer a lot in the winter and spring time. I have been given all types of medications. Some work better than others. It is a constant live struggle. 
-1	i havent had any medical issues in my life my health is overall good i dont get sick or attend to many doctors offices or hospitals
-1	I know only what I have experience in I've pertaining to health knowledge of health and medical issue
-1	I had a bad cold that didn't seem to go away. I told the doctors that I had an unusual cold that didn't seem to go away. It was determined that I suffered from allergies, and that I hadn't realized or known that. 
-1	I have my CNA license so i know everything about medical and health issues. It is specifically in older people, but i have learned about blood pressure, diabetics, and more health issues. 
-1	I had a light headache and dizzy spells and rapid heart rate with sweating that lead up to a light heartache
-1	I know a little bit about sexual health. I don't have too much knowledge about health issues when it comes to cholesterol and blood sugar levels. 
-1	When my sister recently had a seizure I knew that she had to be placed on her side and kept calm. She could not be jarred or moved. I knew the basics of what to do as we waited for the ambulance to arrive.
-1	Just being a woman and all that we go to the doctor for. And my children.But my issue ore when I had my gallbladder remover.
-1	When I was younger, I notice hanging around trees I would sneeze a lot. I was aware the trees was making sick. I told my parent who give over the counter medication to relieve of the discomfort.
-1	I had wls and I Had to understand my new life and what I can't eat and what I can eat it was alot of information to try and understand
1	I have diabetes and I had my appendix taken out. I currently monitor what I eat and I was learning all I could while dealing with my appendix situation.
-1	My knowledge of a medical issue i had was told to me that I had a serious kidney disease when in fact it was not kidney disease at all
-1	My personal experience was when I was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes I got very bad at first but then everything changed
-1	Going to school and going to the doctors as a kid helped me understand some basic medical terms that were in the suvery
-1	Doing a roofing job, one of the men fail off his ladder and was not breathing so i gave him mouth to mouth till help came.
-1	What you doing fine I have to call me at work are you doing good how you doing fine out for you all doing hope to hear back from the good times for your time
-1	I think my health is OK. But I can work on something for the better for me and will do what it take for me to stay healthy.
-1	I have had 3 surgeries. i had my first breast surgery at age 17. The second one at age 25. I had a hestorectomy at age 34. I go to do imagaing at least twice a year. 
-1	I'm alive and getting better, despite the fact that no doctor has ever been able to diagnose me correctly to fix the problems I have.  I've been learning to do it on my own and it works much better than wasting my time with doctors
-1	At 19 years of age I had a lot of stress in my life and began having small blackouts and I would feel light-headed.  I figured I was suffering from high blood pressure as I was a bit overweight and went to the doctor who diagnosed me with high blood pressure which was not good at such a young age.  I went home and immediately ingested fresh garlic with all my meals which helped me to alleviate my high blood pressure without having to take medication.
-1	 i was feeling like i had to throu up, getting dizzy, and i was feeling confuse, and i was feelig hot even thoujgh it wasn't hot in the house, and i fanted i pass out and i didn't know it my family realize i hit the floor and i didn't know it
-1	When doctors come together to care for need of a patient by treating them by care and love. To whom may concern to show care people feeling not well.
-1	I work in a hospital a couple and nursing home a couple of years ago. thats where i experience my knowledge of health and medical issues. not so much for my own health, i have been pretty healthy so far
-1	I was feeling short of breath and I was alone. I knew to call for help to get to the hospital. I didn't have any symptoms of anything until I ate  oysters.
-1	I often go to the doctor and listen. I read and study. I comprehend what the doctor usually tells me.
-1	I was feeling a bit depressed after I started taking a brand of birth control, I had severe mood swings and felt that it was due to the birth control so I stopped. As soon as I stopped taking the birth control I felt like myself again.
-1	When my son said there was a burning sensation whenever he urinated I knew that he had a urinary tract infection.
1	I was born severely lactose intolerant and with numerous food allergies.  As a child, an allergist told me that I would have to learn how to take care of myself to avoid adverse reactions to food I could not tolerate.  I had to learn to cook for myself as a child; as I could sldom eat the meals the rest of my family routinely prepared.
-1	There are none. I don't know. I don't know shy you kept asking these questions are looking for that information. Who actually Jesus up with that.
-1	I experienced a health issue and do my own research.  Later from talking with peers and a visit to the doctors, I found out that I had learned quite a bit and then realized that I was highly informed.
-1	I had a sore throat that did not go away even through I was taking different cold medications. I check online and I discovered that I had a series viral infection which my doctor confirm.
-1	No every woman gets breast cancer just depends on the family genes and make up of your family members DNA 
-1	I know a couple people who have high cholesterol and was there when the doctor told him that they may have a heart attack
-1	My knowledge of certain medical issues that I actually can say I have a firm knowledge of is the size of a serving... 
-1	I know exactly what to take when i have a yeast infection or panic attack without having to go to the doctors. Simply by using natural home remedies.
-1	I had diverticulitis and had to be in the hospital for over two months to have a lower part of my intestines removed and it was a long time too heal from that situation
-1	 All the medication I take is for seizures and depression or can't sleep.. my health problems come from a car accident.
-1	An experiment that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when be when i discovered i had high blood pressure and i had to monitor my blood pressure every day.
-1	I had a hip replacement a few years and it show that I have a small amount of knowledge of health or medical issures.  The physican nurse was able to explain things about the procdecure of before and after that made me aware of how little I know.
-1	Glaucoma is a disease that damages your eye's optic nerve, when fluid builds up in the front of your eye.  The fluid increases the pressure  damaging the optic nerve.
-1	I really haven't had an experienced any serious health issues that required I have some particular knowledge of the medical conditions.
-1	Well, learning in my health class about a lot of conditions I can say have that I've had plenty not only from physical but from mental issues as well.
-1	When I was pregnant I learned a whole new medical language. I knew nothing expect the average information on pregnancy. Once I left my Ob doctor I would gather all the information given and look things up to read and to really get a better understanding.
-1	When I had a rash on my arms I researched it to find out I had eczema but my ob told me I had psoriasis but it turned out I was right and he was wrong.
-1	I believed that if i supposed to do something to check myself out, I will do what the Doctor tell me what to take to see what my situation might be concerning my Health. My health to me is very important.
-1	A mammogram is used to screen women for breast cancer. False positives are tests that incorrectly show a positive result. 85% of positive mammograms are actually false positives. 
-1	i did not have a medin my medical issue an i plan on don't i did not have a demonstrated in my life. and i pray i don't
-1	Well I went to the doctor for missing periods and I found out that it had something to do with my ovaries. I knew that I had to take good care of my body and eat more healthy.
-1	I don't know what you think I'm going to tell you I don't know what to say I don't know how many characters this is I have no clue what you are talking about I hope this is a mini characters as I need
-1	NothingIhzve nothing. wrong with my health at all Eat right and exercise when I can and have any time inky day.
-1	i have never had an experience in my life that demolished my knowledge of health and or medical care. 
-1	I had to get a surgery and it was good the outcome was good everything went very well with the surgery and the physician 
-1	My experience is that all  drugs are bull and have very little to do with actual findings. Resources with actual facts is not provided or proven.
-1	I usually just learn from experience, so much happened throughout my life, I just research up on most symptoms I have.
-1	When I was diagnosed with anxiety and depression. I researched along with Dr's hrlp and over came the condition.
-1	when I had a bump under my eye I look up online and found out what it was. I treated it and it went down.
-1	A moment in m. y life where its described my experience with medical is when one of my bestfriends broke there arm and had a mild concussion while skate boarding. To make sure he didnt have and serious or life threating injuries we quickly called ems, elevated his feet and kept him from moving around till help arrived
-1	my health is everything i wanted it to be and then some. i had a checkup recently and everything is okay.
-1	I witnessed someone catch a disease and since then, I have made ways to stay healthy by eating healthier foods, more fruits, more vegetables, and I wash certain foods if needed. I barbeque meats more than rather than using grease, and I constantly drink liquids. These liquids are used to nuetralize and rejuvenate the body to stay hydrated
-1	I was was 6 months pregnant. I started to have real bad cramps. I knew something was wrong and went to the hospital. I found out the baby was not inside the placenta and for whatever reason I started to bleed internally. At that point I underwent surgery and they had to abort the baby and stopped the bleeding. I understood they had to take the actions they did to save my life.
-1	WHEN I WAS HELPING MY MOTHER TAKE CARE OF MY FATHER WHEN HE WAS DYING OF LIVER FAILURE, I BECAME PRETTY ADEPT AT ADMINISTERING HIS MEDICATIONS AND FEEDING HIM HIS MEALS.
-1	There was a time i saw someone having a seizure and i held their head to the side so they wouldnt choke on vomit and helped them stay calm after it was over and the medics arrived on the scene
-1	I dont know cause I really haven't had one in my life an praying I don't have one so I really cant answer the question 
-1	Never had the type of test spoken about.just had a simple test a simple breast exam in which is uncomfrontable
-1	I don't know what to say but I love chipotle in medical issues is not nothing to play with it is very serious you should take care of your health and you were right
-1	I truly don't have no knowledge mint of what the questions you have answered but I bet answer them to the best of my ability
-1	I had a vague understanding of the medical problems listed above. These are questions I would look up on the internet or ask my doctor to explain
-1	I was diagnosed with thyroid disease and have been taking synthroid for close to twenty years. I recently noticed my tsh was going up in my yearly tests. My doctor switched me to a different dosage.
-1	i really wish i could give you an answer but idk lol sorry but should god always be the answer 
-1	The doctors treated me good when i was feeling bad so you knoq im not going our sad, my bitch right beside me we trying to get that bag.
-1	taking care of my mother who had lymphoma and taking care of my grandmother who had dementia.  i had to learn about medications and procedures
-1	I would have to say when I was employed in the medical field. There are lot of times in the field where you have to trust what you have learned. I think the best teacher is experience when it comes to the medical issures
-1	I have had an abnormal mammogram because I was called and told to come in and take the mammogram again. One that was a deeper probe of breast tissue. I knew I had been told that I had a sebaceous cyst outside my left breast underneath the breast. I had forgooten to mention it to the mammogram taker. Just as I thought, the cyst showed up and I was told to just make the mammogram takers aware and have it excised, if it bothered me.
-1	School helps u learn and grow staying at home and doing nothing damages ur brain bc ur brain needs to stay on not off
-1	Grandma diagnosed with colon and bladder cancer. All Doctor's appt. Informed and provided care through surgery. Provided home health care. Took classes on taking care of her post surgery. 
-1	When i have allergic reactions to certain things such as peanuts or any other types of nuts and bug bites
1	Recently, I experienced a shooting pain in my back and tingling sensation in my legs. I researched to find that these were symptoms of sciatica, which made sense of a feeling of numbness in my thighs and back pain that I'd been feeling for the past few months. 
-1	I don't technically have a medical issue because usually I go get occasionally check up to protect myself from serious affects
-1	I guess when I started having boils on my body that's when I started to do research on pilonidal cysts and hidradenita suppurativa online like the symptoms, treatment, and causes.
-1	i went to visit my doctor and  he told me that i need to quite smoking cause it can cause cancer and  to make sure i take my medcine as i was told.
-1	I am able to help people who have similar things like i do. Like eczema or pain in my knee or a cold 
-1	When my mother had a massive heart attack doctors said her right coronary was 100% blocked. She also had 40-60% heart damage. The team put a stent in but told her she would need to come back for open heart surgery because 3 other vessels were blocked. I used the information I knew about how the heart pumps blood to know what was wrong with mom and how they can fix it.
-1	My mom, two aunt died of cancer, my mom has had a problem with diabetes for years, so I had to pay attention to doctor conversation and I had to learn a little to under stand
-1	My doctor tells me that I have high cholesterol. He informs me that I have a 10% risk of having a heart attack in the next 5 years. If i start on a cholesterol-lowering drug, I can reduce my risk by 30%. 
-1	When my mom was sick I drove to the store and got her medicine and gave it to her and she felt better
-1	I have no idea what to do with the help of a sudden death of a sudden death in the morning and the other hand and the other hand 
-1	I always check online and health site to see if there's any I need to change about how healthy. I drink milk and take medicine to keep me well
-1	I was recently diagnosed with cancer of the throat and it was scary at first but the radiologist and the oncologist after talking to me and explaining to me everything that I was to experience help me better prepare for what I  experienced 
-1	Not sure if this counts but i took ap biology in high school and we learned a lot about medical topics.
-1	I was diagnosed with a vocal cord disorder last year. Me knowing about EVERYTHING I've done in my prevented the disorder from becoming worse
-1	When I first found out I was pregnant, I never knew about my constant back pains & headaches. Now I know if I start to experience those issues, I can easily fix it with certain medications
-1	I found a lump in my breast at age 30. It was a benign tumor that I had removed. This allowed me to research and gain knowledge about early detection. 
-1	I Research a lot, if/ when I get symptoms, I research..I think research is #1 in everything, I Havent had a health scare in years..I was always high risk During pregnancy and my first baby was born at 27 weeks.
-1	I have been told inaccurate thongs by doctors, a number of times. Regarding myself and !y children. I will not go into detail.
-1	When i had an allergic reaction to vicodin. I knew immediately that something was wrong. Began yo itch and red welts began to appear on my body
-1	I have had basic medical training MRT, CP training and live with a nurse. I have not had any serious medical problems and therefore have a limited knowledge of treatments or issues
1	I had an abnormal lump in my breast and did all of the necessary research and coordinated with my dr to schedule tests
-1	I feel that my knowledge of health or medical issues has increased over the years. I also feel that my experience in my life has graduated over a period of time.
-1	i have never had any medical issues that is dealing with the heart my heart has been good so far i havent smoke no cigeratte or nothing so my health is fine
-1	My experience was very rare because to be honest I don't know what that means lol but I will try to answer anyways. 
-1	I can only provide medical knowledge or issues to others if I have experienced the same issue or have taken care of my children or spouse with the same issue.
-1	I'm only good with basic knowledge health topics, anything more than that I would need someone to help me understand.
-1	I stared out in Resthomes and from taking care of people.I read anything I could about  medical things
-1	My health is very good I do exercise  regularly  and eat healthy I take all my medication on a daily  basis 
-1	When my mother had surgery for. Burst appendix l learned about what happens when it burst and what can happen if u ignore it too ong.
-1	non i haven't experienced any of these for less than a year and other pain. but i have told my doctor about it
-1	When I became a caregiver for my mom who had cancer and going to treatments with her and listening to her doctor I was able to understand better what was actually going on and why
1	The time in my life that I demonstrated knowledge of health was when I had a routine physical and my blood pressure was slightly high. I was told to come back in six months to re-examine. During that six months I changed my diet, exercised regularly and practiced holistic and meditation techniques. My next doctors visit, I was told that my blood pressure was significantly reduced and back to the normal range.
1	A time that I demonstrated knowledge is when I told as friend that she may have diabetes due to bad eating. She went to the doctor and she was right.
1	I was left alone to baby-sit my baby brother. Early in the evening he started to cry and his body was very warm. I wasn't sure how to medicate a baby but I knew that I had  to reduce his temperature immediately. I gave him a bath in cool water and let him play in it for a while. Within an hour his temperature had gone down.
-1	When I was told I had diabetes so I knew I had to lower my intake on calories,carbohydrates, and other things.
-1	I have some health issue so i know a little about medical issues.lm not a mathematician so the problem you needed me to figure out don't contain to me
-1	I have a thyroid problems that I have to take medicine for. I exercise three days a week sometime four. I always try to eat healthy
-1	I consult web md to gain more knowledge about symptoms I may have.  I consult the nurse on line to determine what the next steps should be. 
-1	I have bad asthma and allergies and it's an issue because my allergies depends on the type of whether and I sneeze often and always have a runny nose and my asthma I have to carry my inhaler everywhere
-1	is it true or false..who will tall just keepin up wiyh help an health..changed for the bed or good..is it what u want in health
-1	I feel that I have not been able to demonstrate my knowledge in healthcare or medical issues, but I hope that I will have a chance to in the future.
-1	Mainly my knowledge of math from school and common sense. I am not 100 percent sure about my answers though.
-1	I actually have no idea what I am talking about. I normally rely a lot on my mother whos in the medical field and the doctor to tell me whats wrong. But I should find out for myseld as well.
-1	I really haven't had any experience in life where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issue
-1	A neighbor was into drugs and ODed. I ran over did CPR til the EMS got there. Everyone said thanks to me he made it through. Now he's on a path to recovery (i hope) 
-1	I have minimum knowledge about medical Issues but I can try to treat a Cold or the Flu. I know how to treat Minor burns and cuts.
-1	I really have been struggling with my condition for sometime now. It really showed me how little I actually knew about my wellbeing
-1	My grandfather was 89 years old when he was diagnosed with stage 4 lung cancer. He was placed on hospice care. We had the option to move forward with chemotherapy or radiation. As a family we decided we would move forward with hospice care and deny the treatments. Based on his age and the progression of the cancer we thought it would be best for him to enjoy his last days versus allowing him to suffer through the treatments.
-1	I don't have much experience with health issues because I never paid attention but I know it would become very helpful
-1	In my lve had a good understanding of medical problems and how much of something I'm taking in so I've had a nice understanding with evreything
-1	Read online medical journals, eat right, and do regular daily  exercise, sleep and take enough rest.call my doctor and arrange for medical check up.
-1	I was having pakn and numbness in my leg and getting a sensation that it was falling asleep while exercising. I did some research and came to the conclusion that it was intermittent claudication and I needed to stop smoking. I mentioned it to my doctor and it seems like a match and now my leg is healing.
-1	i have never had an experience like this none that i can think of off top besides me being born premature that's all but i don't remember it
-1	AN INSTITUTIONAL BASED CROSSED SECTIONAL STUDY WAS CONDUCTED AMONG 320 RANDOMLY SELECTED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL FROM AUGEST12- 25 A PRETESTED ADMINSTERED QUESTIONAIRE  DATA ENTRY  AND ANALYSIS WERE BEGIN DONE USING EPI-INFO VERSION 3.5.4 AND SPPS VERSION 20 RESPECTIVELY.
-1	Often times I read news and articles for the fun of it, I have some knowledge from that. My mother is a nurse in a clinic, but not an RN nurse and that has helped me as well. 
1	I have done case studies in a few of my classes to apply my knowledge. One class I did this in was physiology.
-1	When I was told I was pregnant I was given and told a list of do's and don't of what I can and can't do if I was to start having chest pains I had to call the doctor or if I spot blood in my panties I had to go to the emergency room
-1	Recently I lost an unborn child. I knew that somthing was wrong. 1 day after I took an home pregnancy test I started bleeding. I went to the hospital the next day and was told to come back 2 days later to check my levels again this happened on the the 7th and the 9th of one month and I ended up having surgery by the 26th of the same month. I just knew something was wrong seeing as this wasn't my first miscarriage but the 1 thing that was different this time was that my baby had an heart beat but the baby was in my tube. So they had to take not only the baby but also my tube. 
-1	My husband has a vein in his leg that never treated and his mom kept telling us that it was a parasite by the shape of it but I knew it couldn't be because I noticed it before and it gets swollen only when he does physical activity so I suggested him to go to a specialist and it turned out to be only a vein.
-1	"I recently went to a hospital and recieved very rushed service from a ""professional"" who gave me naproxen for severe abdominal and back pain claiming I had ""simply slept wrong"". I did not take the naproxen because I know all about nsaids and their affect on the stomach. I went back to the same hospital after the pain persisted and received excellent service from staff who agreed that the drugs given to me could worsen my condition and were ill advised. "
-1	I started noticing stiffness in my fingers. I went to the doctor and found out it was arthritis. It doesn't go away but can be controlled with medicine. 
-1	One of my friends had the flu but just thought it was food poisoning so I told her to go to the doctor 
1	I'm Type 1 diabetic, so I deal with medical issues on a daily basis.  I have been strictly managing my diet, exercise and insulin intake.
-1	When I had a sinus infection and I realized this from past infections which included my upper teeth hurting and a stuffy nose and headache.
-1	When I was a baby I was very sick so I spent my life living in a hospital in an incabater for half my life.
1	When having to choose whether or not to take a drug, I spent some time researching the side effects. I ultimately decided not to take it due to fear that the side effects were worse than my symptoms. I don't know how well that demonstrates knowledge, but it's the only time I've been seriously involved in a medical decision.
-1	NA - cannot think of a specific moment. I have never experienced a moment where I needed to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	My husband had open heart surgery the charges and hospital and doctor expenses were enormous and time consuming
-1	I habe not had any medical issues in my like as of now   if told I would need to take care of my seld and follow instructions 
-1	Helping my husband to take his blood sugar with a monitor on a daily basis. I help select which foods would keep him in range.
1	My grandmother was diagnosed with a brain tumor. After doing much research on the internet,using knowlege i already had and visiting several doctors, we had more information .
-1	I have quite a few health issues, so i have quite a few negative and positive experiences when it comes to doctors and nurses as well as just over all medical expereinces and knowledge of conditions. 
1	"I had a young man come to clean my carpets. He was ill, looked pale , had a fever, and complained of abdominal pain. As he was setting up the equipment outside my home, he collapsed. I called 911 as he was experiencing what is called a ""acute abdomen."" He was diagnosed with acute appendicitis, went by ambulance to the hospital and underwent emergency surgery."
1	I went to uc Berkeley and majored and got a ba degree in human biodynamics.  sports medicine basically.  as well I was an athletic trainer in my 5 years of college, worked with emergency response an doctors
1	My husband went in for knee replacement surgery. The day after his operation, he was told definitively that he was diabetic. I was astonished, as he had never been told that he was at risk-he ate well, was a healthy weight, and went to the doctor twice a year for check ups. I also knew that surgery can impact blood sugar. We discussed it, and he held off on taking insulin until the stress on his body had diminished. He was retested twice, and both time his blood sugar was normal. 
1	I had to perform the heimleck manouever on one occasion and also perform first aid many times and I'm glad I had some basic knowledge of both of these.
1	i can't think of a specific situation that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues other than just having a gut instinct when something is wrong
-1	I have a condition called neuropathy. I got it over the years and do not know why? I take medication to help open up my arteries so blood flows better into my feet and toes. 
1	I have been interested in holistic healing and worked in the field for half my life as a writer and healer
1	Up until the past seven years or so, I have been in very good health.  The last seven years, though, I have had a great deal of health problems, and this has required me to learn more about health and medical issues.
-1	I use information provided from others, not word and number games that test my stupidity in this survey
-1	My lungs.Was not not really belived by medical staff. They just kept giving me antibiotics until I became resistent and got candida. That I also curied on my own. The lungs I took herbs/vitamins for.
-1	When I was pregnant, I knew something was wrong and had all the signs. My doctor didn't even catch it or even thing of it, but I was correct.
-1	my health is pretty fine i like to walk / jog around the block once a day go to work come home feed the family i like to walk to dog around the park :) 
-1	A1C Levels Over 7 Are On The Way To Diabetes...So It Is Worthwhile To Have A Goal Of Lwss Than 7% A1C ...
-1	when i assisted with my sick niece at a time of need. i was a big help to her parents who seemed to be a little nervous at the time.
-1	since i am not a medical doctor i would say that i do not pocess the ability to accurately demenstrate any in depth knowledge of medical issues
-1	I actually  have taken medical terminology classes, so I have knowledge of what some things are and what can be done
1	I have had four sinus surgeries and I minored in biology in college. I have had health issues all my life, so I at least know how to understand them.
-1	I had seen a commercial for a medication on television. It said that the medication shouldn't be taken with another medication at the same time because it increases risks of serious side effects. I told another person about this. They asked their doctor about this, and they had to stop taking one of the medications. 
-1	My mother was complaining of feeling weak, and was cold and clammy to the touch, I suggested that it might be due to low blood sugar, and after she checked herself, I was correct and she had a low blood sugar 
-1	I've honestly never had any serious medicall issues myself. My daughter has had breathing issues off and on which has caused me to have to follow up and understand doctors. 
-1	i was diagnosed with cancer and had to answer a lot of questions and continue to do so throughout my treatment through the years. 
1	I have gad a pulmonary embolism twice. I learned how blood thinners will oncrease mu chances of living a healthy life.
1	"The only real medical issue I have had personally since childhood was a bout of Bell's Palsy about 20 years ago.  Partial facial paralysis made me initially fear a stroke but I was reassured that my mental abilities seemed okay.  Successful treatment at a med center followed by some online research taught me that this condition just ""happens"" and it's causes and chance of recurrence are pretty much unknown."
-1	"After my brother was found to have a hole in his heart my mother and I learned alot about the heart functions and alot of the ""lingo"""
-1	I can't really recall anything off the top of my head at this very moment of any experiences that I can demonstrate
-1	i have been a vegan for years and choose to eat healthy and go to the doctor once a year my family is very healthy
-1	My son had fallen down the stairs and hit his head on the cold air return, I immediately saw a difference in his equal Librium which to me indicated a cuncussion I of course took him to see his physician 
-1	When I was pregnant I learned alot about having a baby.  I read alot and asked questions   I asked others about there pregnancies too
-1	i was able to care for my husband when he got sick i did everything i could for him  and knew a lot about his illness
1	I found out that I have three different blood clotting disorders after I was diagnosed with blood clots in my lungs twice in six months. At that point, I started to read up on the blood clotting disorders, blood clots and health information in general. 
-1	I was numb from my right knee down to my foot and the numbness was told to me that after spinal fusion surgery that it should go away but it hasn't. 
1	when i went to college i studied alot of health and science courses so i have pretty good knowledge on the subjects
1	all i'm wondering rn is why the math questions man. i mean, what, i'm not that smart. dude, just why.
-1	I was diagnosed with familial breast cancer at age 41. Because of the experiences of my mother, aunt and grandmother I already knew quite a bit about the disease.
-1	When I knew my leg was more than just arthritis and I kept pushing it.   Turned out to be a bone tumor.
-1	i dont know much about this subject and i do not feel comfortable about it  other than gthat i just dont know much about it
1	I have no idea but I will try.  I had heart bypass surgery and I know why the surgery was necessary for me and what I had to do to recover from the surgery
1	When I had pneumenia a few years ago it required hospitalization and it was thought that the cause was that I was anemic and I had no idea that just a small iron pill could help keep me healthier
1	I don't have extensive knowledge relating to health issues, except for those I myself have dealt with.  I do however, know how to research and questions to determine what course of action would be both most effective and most to my own choosing.
1	I have had 5 children and I have had no  problems with raising them in a healthy manner.  I was able to tell when their problems were serious enough to consult with a doctor.  They are all married, with families and are doing very well in life.
-1	Smoking sucks, don't use drugs unless Prescribed, it isn't nice to play in the middle of the street, especially if the street is an Interstate and babies do NOT come from storks.
1	I have hearing loss which is profound and has gotten worse over the 32 years I have worn hearing aids.  I have had hearing tests showing the bone conduction hearing and regular hearing to be quite different.  In researching I have found surgery may be an option.
-1	i always read thru medical books and sites and try to learn as much as i can thru the medical field i want to further eduracate myself 
-1	I am well aware of my side effects for the medications I am taking.  I was experiencing one of those, and went to the doctor.  He claimed that the side effect I was complaining about did not exist for that medication.  I argued with him and told him to check the PDR.  I was correct, and he was not.  He had to apologize.
-1	My husband had gangrene in a foot from chemo. I visited my uncle and knew he had gangrene in his feet by the smell
-1	"I have had such few experiences with my health in regards to issues that it is difficult for me to even remember what one of those might be.  I did have a mammogram that came back ""suspicious"".  I had already been through that before, therefore, I was actually unconcerned about the results but did take a second mammogram which showed all was okay after all."
-1	I have been diagnosed with a slipped disc because of arthritis and when I went to physical therapy the therapists explained the problem to me.  He said the arthritis has pushed my disc to the back of my spine alittle that is why I'm having pain
-1	Working in drs office and naming medications and usuage to the nurses  who were new and them coming to me for advice as I have a good understanding of how things work 
1	After I had my colectomy in Jan. 2003, I relearned all of the ulcerative colitis terms and jargon my mom taught me because she suffers from the same condition.
-1	my grandson has type 1 diabetes and an insulin pump.  learning how to take his sugar and do the math to put in the right numbers in his pump has been a long, painstaking process that I am doing but always nervous about.  thank god for the equations and calculator.
1	I was diagnosed with a chronic thyroid condition and was able to communicate single-handedly with the various doctors I visited
-1	everyday at my job as veterinary assistant I use my knowledge to dose medications to animals, by weight 
1	I'm not sure if I understand this question, but I regularly speak wtih a doctor about mental health. I have a strong understanding about the side effects of many drugs.
1	I currestly work in the medical field in a physical therapy and chirpractor office and work with medical diagnosis and icd 10 daily
-1	I am 72 years of age I pay attention to what physicians suggest sp I may live a long productive life    Pay attention to family history and advise phsician of same
-1	After having had shoulder surgery I learned on my own ie not from the doctor, that the best solution to my ongoing issue with the shoulder were specific exercises and it actually worked.  How smart of me? :-)
1	I cannot truly think of any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues. I am not that knowledgeable.
-1	i was riding on the handle bars and I got worried and starting moving around on the bike's handle bar, being close to the tires my foot got stuck between the spokes. the bruise on my ankle got infected and i needed to see a doctor. I got cured and went back home.. 
-1	Whenever i want to know what i am diagnosed with i tend to do more thorough research and ask questions if needed
-1	i not aware of all the number you were using but i do keep up with my number that apply to me and keep them uncontrolled
-1	The health classes I took in a community college. I studied most of the info in the text books and my final score on my test was a 94
-1	Depression is a staple of mine.  I read all informaiton that I find dealing with the subject, and then I speak with my doctor about my findings for the best treatment.
1	I have not had any major health issue. The only time I have been in a hospital is to give birth and everything went smoothly. I did feel like I knew what was going on the entire time.  The nurses and doctor did a great of explaining everything that was happening. 
-1	i have some knowledge of some health issuses but not all of them some things i know and some things i do not know
-1	my hands were constantly getting numb and sometimes hurting.  I told the Doctor but she did or said nothing.  I looked yo my symptoms and found that I suffered from Carpal Tunnel and then the Doctor took action.
-1	I had irritable bowel syndrome. I read took my Lanta and ibeprophen for pain. I took a warm bath drinked chamolie tea to sooth my stomach. I also used the hot water bottle for relief
-1	How many times else do you know tomorrow they should be able to help you out . Not doing what ever they doing and playing around and talking to others whole while work is needed to be done
-1	I can fill out  my own forms and I can understand 95% of what I read. When I have questions I have them written down.
-1	I do not know anything on how this works. I don't have any undestanding what is explained to me for what so ever.
-1	I've taken a class in high school where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of heart or medical issues because I had to do cpr on s dummy. 
-1	I had an experience many years ago where I was involved in a car accident and my knees were injured during the crash.  I saw a couple of different doctors who couldn't find anything wrong, but I know their findings were not accurate because of the pain I was feeling.
-1	When I wen tothe gym and the trainer was talking abiut eating healthy and excersing and I knew most of what he was talking about 
-1	When my sisters baby had a rash I immediately knew what it was and how to treat it. I even wrote down instructions for her to follow
-1	When I had to have a hysterectomy, I understood the reason.  I was more than happy to have the procedure.
-1	I worked briefly as a medical support assistant so I picked up on cpr and safety training tips needed for real life
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with stage three Ovarian Cancer, I knew the difference between the words benign and malignant. 
-1	ACTUALLY MOST OF THE MEDICAL ISSUES I DO HAVE, I DO RESEARCH ON ALL MEDICAL ISSUES I HAVE. ALSO I HAVE LEARNED A LOT OF ABOUT MY MEDICAL ISSUES BY ASKING MY DOCTORS,AND NURSES.
-1	When my mom had a stroke I thought about the symptoms she was having days before and realized they were in relationship to her having a stroke. 
-1	once a man had a heart attack and i saved him and take him to hospital and he was happy ever afterfor a long long time with his fammily
-1	When i was home 5 years ago i experience  and very serious  health  issues which cause me to be in the hospital  for 3 months but GOD heal me
-1	I have not have had any health issue for the pass years of my like. But have seen people gone through lots of health issue because I am Working in the health field 
1	An experience in my life that I demonstrated knowledge of health is when a nurse came to ask me questions when I was in the hospital for a hurt arm.
-1	 I must say that i never had any health experiences that were horrible per say. But i can say that when it comes to health, it all depends on how well that person has taken good care of his/her body. Exercising regularly, drinking plenty of water, abstain from junk food regularly, eat lots of vegetables, and always maintain a healthy lifestyle. Our bodies are the temple of God. We were made by His image. I know He would want for us to take care of our temple.
1	I am a nurse, I have to use my knowledge of health and Medical issues every day when I am at work and home
-1	the last time I went t the doctor the doctor told me had  a higher changes of get high blood pressure or high cholesterol.
-1	Went to a doctor with abdominal pain. Told doctor I needed a urine culture for a UTI and antibiotics. Dr ran several tests only to conclude I had a bad UTI which needed double dose of antibiotics. 
-1	I do not have much knowledge of general health or medical issues but I read a lot and ask a lot of questions.
-1	Filling out a complete health screening at a physician's office requires some knowledge of health or medical issues.  There is terminology used on those forms which require at least a rudimentary knowledge. 
-1	WHEN I WAS ABLE TO FIND OUT MY BLOOD PRESSURE NUMBERS WITHOUT ASKING QUESTIONS. I WAS ABLE TO MANAGE MY SUGAR INTAKE WITH GOOD MEASUREMENTS
1	throughout my live i have had a lot of medical procedures, when i was 15 i had major surgery on my back and had to wear a back brace for 10 months and varies other procedures during my lifetime
-1	I have experienced a few illnesses in my lifetime.  So I have been around many different  types of illnesses.  I have been a patient for gout and acute kidney failure.
-1	I fell playing basketball some years ago and when I tried to stand up I was unable to after trying to stand up a few times and was unable to I knew I broke my knee
-1	I have been researching my health issues for years.  I also worked for a medical facility and read lots of material.
-1	There have only been one occasion where i have had a general medical knowledge it was when i took a self breast exam.
-1	Where did you fry was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes before I got married and after I had gotten married we've had three kids so I had to learn about nutrition and taking insulin testing my blood sugarlevels 
-1	the aftermath-caught a cold and passed out and found out it was because i was dehydrated-now i know to have more liquids in coldd weather because i can be dehydrated then too
-1	I can't think of a time in my life right now that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	WALKING PNEUMONIA. NO KNOWLEDGE. NO SIGNS. ONLY EXPERIENCE I HAD WAS APATITE LOST. I NOW KNOW WHAT TO LOOK FOR WHEN IT COMES TO MY HEALTH. THIS COMES IN VARIOUS FORMS. 
-1	When I had my second ceserean section the doctor told me I have a 1. Something chance of having a serious medical problem.
-1	A previous diagnosis of adenomyosis which entailed and resulted in tissue growing within the uterine wall. This causea vomiting, severe menstrual cramps etc during a woman's cycle
-1	When I was having constant chest pains, fear of dying, fatigue, dizziness, etc I was sure it was anxiety after I went to the ER several times. 
1	I was training for a marathon, and I was able to determine that pain I was experiencing at the time went beyond normal training soreness. I went to seek medical advice, and discovered I had partially torn my posterior tibial tendon, which required surgery
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I had one heart attack
-1	Having to find out surprisingly that I had Type 2 diabetes. I knew something was wrong because my sugar level was over 400.
1	My friend's son recently broke out into a rash after having being sick for a week. He had been experiencing common cold symptoms, but had started to slowly get better. When the rash started, his mother thought that it was due to an allergic reaction or a fungus, but I informed her that it was most likely a post-viral rash, which is the body's way of recovering after fighting off a virus.  As a precaution, she took her son to the doctor, who confirmed that it was indeed a post-viral rash.
1	Because I have been a model patient, I was asked by the Social Work team to join a group as a navigator.  This voluntary position gave me the opportunity to mentor other patients with health profiles similar to mine.  In this position, I gave personal support and guidance to patients at their request to help manage their conditions.
-1	I was told about  ten year ago I had  pre diabetes  I was on medication for three years.  I now don't take medication  I am eating  right and excerising. My sugar level is low.
-1	some what just seeing a doctor every 3 months helps.and trying to stay healty.other than that i think that i be alright.
-1	I can't recall any thing that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.                 
-1	NO I didn't have a moment when I know enough about the medical issues that was happening I didn't know a dang thing.
-1	Filling out forms, finding a lump in my breast and going to the doctors, having multiple surgeries  
-1	When I had a mass in my ovaries I had to get it removed and that was a serious medical issue for me I had laperscopic surgery it was the best thing I could have done because it was one less thing I had to worry about 
-1	In health class at college, we was required to explain how to prevent different health issue that we had
-1	Taking the recommended dosages of prescribed medications  trying to eat healthier as suggested by the doctor and trying to exercise
-1	studying as a nurse aide and working as a volunteer at the veterans hospital watching and learning the professionals perform their daily duties
-1	I just became an adult, so I imagine I'll have to do more things like this. The only things I've done is schedule appointments, but I'm having a physical and then going on a 10-hour fast for a lab.
-1	When I had to have a hysterectomy. I had to have surgery and a nights hospital stay. It was hard but I did it
-1	I once told the doctor which medicine to prescribe  because  he was taking awhile. He double checked my choice and told me it was a good one.
-1	I am a homemaker who doesn't  do alot of active activites to heep myself upbeat and energized. I try to do a lot of house chores to get some activies in
-1	Well I do t have many I am not a doctor person I try to eat right and stay away from things and food that are not good for me.
-1	I was recently diagnosed with bipolar disorder and had to make sense of all the information & misinformation about the disorder and the experiences of the people living with it. Through online research, I was able to fully understand more about my condition.
-1	My knowledge of health came when I had to have surgery for a tumor.  It was serious enough to warrant surgery however, we caught it in time so therefore the tumor was benigned, and my recovery time was six weeks.
-1	When I was pregnant I thought I had pregnancy diabetes by taking the test and drinking the drink. The at home test I failed, but the in office text I passed.
-1	By knowing the out come of the test that i take, and seeing the doctors when you supose too, and made show you follow up on the test that the doctors order so you can keep well
-1	a mammogramis used to screen women for breast cancer. false positives are tests that show a positive result.
-1	I noticed my best friend had a crooked spine and I told her and her mother that I think she has scoliosis and I was absolutely right.
