1	I have been to the doctor a few times for myself but usually it was taking a child or a friend in.  My wife works in a hospital
-1	I have been to numerous doctors over the years for different reasons. I try to ask questions and get a little bit of information each time. It all depends on who I am speaking with and how helpful they are.
-1	Just by going to the doctors, watching medical shows, and have family members in the medical field
1	Taking medical classes in high school and college. These classes taught me medical terminology and atomy and other things that help me understand medicine today. 
1	I independently self-diagnosed myself with a rare inner ear condition by reading current medical journals before seeing my GP and my ear doctor.
1	When I play Jeopardy, I always get those questions right.
-1	I had to help my mom as she was going through cancer. I feel like I was able to comprehend most of what her oncologist was explaining about radiation, chemo, and side effects.
-1	I have been to the doctor many times with odd issues.  I feel that they are mainly taken care of with medicine I take daily.
1	When I dealt with my own Interstitial Cystitis 
1	Just growing up, I had to go to the hospitals often, roughly once or twice a week. My mother had cancer and was constantly in and out, so I learned a bit.
-1	Once I washed out a deep wound with rubbing alcohol so it wouldn't get infected
-1	When I was pregnant and I had gestation diabetes and I was able to control my blood sugar through diet 
-1	I was worried that the large mass on my neck was cancerous, but I remembered that my sister had the same problem when she was a kid. It was merely inflamed lymph nodes.
-1	Just reading and listening to family talk
1	A neighbor came down with chicken pox in 4th grade. I knew that since I had had it in 3rd grade, I couldn't catch it again.
-1	when I went to the hospital and they asked what kind of allergies I had 
-1	well there was a time that I went to the doctor, and he started talking about when I was at the mental health institution and he told me that I would like it but I told him I been already and didn't. they also say I have bipolar which I don't believe
1	There was a time when a volleyball player fell on her ankle wrong and I was able to diagnose that she sprained her ankle. 
1	My wife has tons of health issues.  I can explain to people what is going on with her.  I also got an A in my health class I took for my college degree.
1	My father had lung cancer.  I went with him to a lot of his doctor visits.  I got to hear a lot about his condition and I picked up a lot just listening from the nurses.
1	I am a medical student. I am currently learning how to accurately assess health information in various classes I currently take.
1	When my children are sick, I understand the difference between a viral infection and bacterial. I know that they do not need to see a doctor for a simple cold as antibiotics are ineffective.
1	I knew what my doctor was talking about when discussing vitamin D deficiency. The medical literature is inconclusive about some diseases/conditions that are improved with vitamin D supplementation. But I know which ones are from personal experience.
-1	knowing signs of panic attacks and what to do when I get one. 
-1	I got an intestinal parasite and ended up the ER and off work for 2 weeks.  I had to do a lot of research about it as I hadn't ever heard of it.  It made me much more aware of my health. 
1	After trying to clean my ears I noticed that I could not hear out of them. I chose not to freak out, as there is a simple solution to fix this by putting warm water and hydrogen peroxide in the ear to clear it out.
1	This doesn't count? Okay...well, I have hypothyroidism, and I know my symptoms, and I know when I'm under medicated, and need to go in for another blood test and a raise in medication levels.  I also know that synthetic levo doesn't work for me, but tubal thyroid does.
1	I was asked about conditions in my human biology class and I managed to do very well in that class. I also demonstrated I knew what was wrong with me when I was stabbed in the stomach and why I had to get surgery/
-1	I had strep throat, knowing the effects I knew I had it
1	I work at a hospital.
1	A friend was having chest pains and pain in their left arm, which indicates a possible heart attack, so we called 911 and got him appropriate help. 
-1	my glands in my neck were swollen. it led me to believe that I had strep throat
-1	When I had to have a discussion with a doctor about health issues my son had I was able to answer questions and present information effectively.
1	I chose to have my children vaccinated.  I understand the benefits of vaccination, and do not believe there is credible evidence that they are harmful.
1	I went in for a uterine fibroid removal and I researched the procedure beforehand. I followed all of the instructions in the paperwork and was prepared for the procedure and recovery.
1	I'm not sure I've never had this occur in my life beyond taking a class in college and knowing some of the basic information already, but I wasn't the only one.
1	Blood test results, thyroid issues, grandpa had cancer and I took care of him for a time. 
-1	I had a time when my dad was showing signs of cancer. I told him to go the doctor and he was diagnosed with prostate cancer. I knew the signs from a friend of mine who had it and I knew what to look for with my dad.
1	
1	I taught a legal class that touched on some issues regarding health regulation.
1	My dad has had three heart attacks and two blood clots.
1	My doctor had a receptionist come in and read over my blood results last time I was at the doctor. She sat down for 20 minutes and read over what everything meant and my results. Now I know how to read all of my results. 
1	When my son was born. I got thrown headfirst into the world of what could be wrong versus what is wrong. I researched a lot, asked my doctor a lot of questions, and over time I have become more and more confidant about my knowledge.
1	I have two small children which really makes you learn about all different types of illnesses and which ones are serious and which are not.  Any time there is a rash, bump, cold, fever, throwing up, you are basically researching to see what it might be.
1	When I was pregnt, I was able to track my blood pressure and other symptoms. That helped me be able to determine my risk for pre-eclampsia, etc.
-1	"When I was a kid I couldn't keep my food down and the doctor said he would have to start feeding me through a needle and I hate needles so I said I would rather blend my food in a blender. So I did that when he thought I wouldn't and he also said I wouldn't grow past 5 ft. 110lbs and I am 5'11"" at 209lbs."
1	I have been able to help friends out by telling them their headaches were most likely caused from not drinking enough water.
-1	I do work at a dental office so in some way I have a small degree of the medical business as a whole but most of this knowledge is just common sense.
1	I am not sure what this question is asking of me. 
-1	I knew right way I had kidney stones. 2nd time I had it. 
-1	Once when I had surgery on my tooth. 
-1	I don't know how to do the calculations above. I know some about medicine from my family.  Mother always gave us home remedies that still work when I use them. Medicine is a business mostly, out to bilk money from insurance companies. We need health care like they used to have in France. 
1	I tore my ACL while in college and immediately knew based upon other coursework with sports psychology and injury prevention. 
1	Was in the hospital, asked a series of questions, the nurse asked me if I was a doctor. I am not.
-1	Earache
1	I helped my mother make informed decisions about treatment when she was diagnosed with cancer. I felt that she left the conversation feeling more comfortable and better informed.
1	I had cancer and am in remission
1	I was having an ache in my foot after I fell off my porch. I did some testing on where the pain was an determined it was just a sprain and not a break. 
1	I felt my thumb joints swelling and while at first I though it momentary it lasted for a few days. Turns out I had gout, which I got treated and it never flared up again.
1	Being able to follow along with the doctor when they are describing stuff
1	I had an allergic reaction a few years ago. Because of my previous history with a reaction, I knew it could be serious and I needed to get to the ER. I had my mother take me.
-1	A few years ago I had some pain in my side that would go off and on. I googled and searched and I found out through symptoms that it could be a gall bladder. Sure enough it was and I was able to have it taken care of
1	The only time I can think of is when I had the smarts to read one of the labels inside a package of medicine my doctor had prescribed. One of the allergen warnings sounded similar to what I was allergic to, so I googled it. Lo and behold it was the same thing, just under a different me!
-1	NO experience with these.
1	My wife was feeling sick and having a prior knowledge of kidney stones, I was able to asses her situation and help her through her pain and passing the stone.
-1	I worked as a C for many years and I currently work with elderly clients. I do that every day.
-1	This would be taking a nutrition course in college. We learned about the correlation between food and health. How instead of medicine to fix a disease we could use food and supplements to prevent many of them.
1	i worked at a nursing home and got a strange reading. I took concern to it and brought it to the nurse who determined they had an infection
1	When diagnosed with a health issue, I was able to properly identify symptoms and interpret information my doctor relayed to me about treatment options. 
-1	i was told to diet and monitor sugar levels and blood pressure. So i had to learn to read labels correctly and know exactly how much sugar i was consuming. Also need to monitor my blood pressure and change things that effect the blood pressure to rise.
-1	Taking my mom and dad to the hospital on many occasions and learning about diagnosis's and conditions based on so many visitors and talks with doctors, 
1	I advised a friend who was having a lot of similar symptoms to me to go to her doctor. When he wrote her off and didn't do any testing, I sent her to mine and told her specifically what to ask for and what tests should be done.  She ended up having the same condition.
1	I needed to care for an elderly parent so having knowledge of things like diabetes and blood pressure were important at the time.  I needed to know what was the acceptable blood sugar range and especially what to do if it got too high or more importantly too low.
-1	I don't really know much but I did the math. I tried to figure out the best way to go about this and give the right answer
1	I have bad health. I have many diseases.  I have demonstrated knowledge by experience and reasearch.
1	I felt a lump on my leg and didn't know what it was. I decided to wait and see if it got worse. It didn't get worse and didn't really change or grow. So, I didn't bother with it and haven't gone to a doctor.
1	When I developed an abscess above my gum line i suspected it was from a recent root cal. I studied the information of abscess's and found that an improper root cal could cause this and also looked at self treatment. When I went to my doctor for antibiotics he was happy that I had done the right things for self treatment until I could be seen.
-1	Two days after I gave birth to my daughter I developed postpartum preeclampsia. My blood pressure and heart rate were dangerously high. I thought this illness could only happened during pregncy, not after.
-1	I used to work at hospital.
-1	My ex had a grand mal seizure. I knew this because of the symptoms. He yelled out first then started shaking. I immediately made sure that the area was safe so that he wouldn't injure himself during that episode. I called 911 because those types of seizures can be deadly. 
1	I had to ahve bloos sugar tolerance tests. I at the time fully udnerstood what the purpose of insluin was and how it affects blood suagr and the relatd issues.
1	none that i can think of
1	I was getting pain in my elbow and I thought it may be tendonitis. I rested it and applied ice. Eventually it went away.
-1	I work out 5 days a week for 45-60 minutes each workout. I I take care of myself by watching what I eat daily 
1	I started a job at a hospital working with patients with mental illness. I was able to catch on quite quickly to medications and side effects as well as co-existing conditions because I had heard of many of them. 
-1	Since I have asthma. I have gained knowledge on how to prevent them and altertive meds that would help in case of a flair up. 
-1	Anytime that I treated my younger brother growing up, I felt like I knew a little something. He told me his symptoms and I would get the proper medicine for him. I would sometimes have to take him to the doctors office as well.
1	I have regularly gone to the doctor and read health information. 
1	When I gave birth to my daughter she had low blood sugar. My husband was extremely worried, but I told him that was fairly common.
-1	I took many classes in social medical sciences, so I know something about medicine. My wife is also a nurse. 
1	I caught a mistake on a test written on a hospital hand out at the hospital.
1	I have never had any health or medical issues, I just like to be well versed in medical terminology and issues.
1	I had surgery for my ACL and had to choose between two different types of ACL replacements - allograft or autograft, and I chose the allograft. 
-1	I diagnosed myself with a health anxiety disorder. A form of anxiety called ocd.
1	Changing my diet and using iodine to solve my health problems when I was 29 with no help from a doctor.
1	When I took my grandmother to the hospital she received documentation for her results. I had to use my knowledge to figure out the readings.
1	Going over medical issues with a family member and helping them choose options for an illness
-1	I had a fever of 100. I knew I didn't need to treat it at that temperature because the fever aids in fighting off the infection and is not harmful at those degrees. 
1	I was diagnosed with a genetic disorder and routinely have to explain to other doctors what the condition is and what it is caused by.
-1	I was actually a pharmacy tech for awhile and had to make medications for sick people. 
1	I have been on a low-carb lifestyle for 10 years. I learned how to count carbs, how to calculate how long I should exercise, and how to estimate how long my weight loss would take. It was a rewarding experience.
1	My knowledge of health issues largely related to food and exercise. I go to the gym regularly and track my eating habits. I was able to lose 35 lbs exercising my knowledge of health. 
-1	A friend was feeling sickly and I asked him what he'd been eating. He told me normal items. I asked him to try and cut back on fatty foods, and he started feeling better. That helped him, and I knew that him eating a ton of fat was making him feel horrible.
-1	I got my mother back to normal after giving her sweet icing after her blood sugar went downhill after taking cold medicine. She was in a state of a diabetic coma or the start of one.
1	I had very infrequent periods but I knew that I was not pregnt. I looked online and saw I had many of the other symptoms of PCOS as well so I went to the gynecologist and expressed my concerns. It turns out I did have PCOS. 
1	I helped my friend who ha a high risk pregncy similar to mine. 
1	Fortutely, I have not had any major health issues and I have not had to demonstrate my knowledge.
-1	It's kind of gross, I was over at my brother in law's house and his kids were running around and playing.  The youngest, Finn, had a red mark on his arm that looked really familiar to me.  I didn't want to say anything but it looked like ringworm.  I'm pretty paranoid about ringworm since I foster cats and volunteer with a cat rescue group and have to be vigilant about it.
1	The first instance that comes to mind occurred a few years ago. My brother was starting to become quite unhealthy in a multitude of ways. So I told him that him weighing as much as he did, was making him at further risk for diabetes and heart disease.
1	I was talking last night with my wife about a medication. I told her that if she were to take that pill and drink grapefruit juice afterwards, it could interact with the medication. In fact, it could amplify the effects. That's why some commercials warn against drinking the juice while on the medication.
-1	Just normal doctor visits and testing.  not working in healthcare 
1	Taking care of my children.  I have been able to diagnose when they are sick, when they need a doctor, or just some Tylenol.
1	When I started exercising to lower my high blood pressure. Within two months, my blood pressure dropped from 150 to 120. I knew that I made a lot of progress and that I lowered my blood pressure by at least 25%.
1	By using basic mathematics, reading carefully and ensuring I have all the information I need to make a good decision. 
1	Discussing options to deal with pain
-1	WHEN I DIDNT HAVE INSURANCE I HAD TO STITCH UP A GASH IN MY LEG.
-1	I once took a CPR class and taught myself to learn quickly where the windpipe is and how the air moves through the lungs. My demonstration on a doll was a far as it went, but it meant a lot to me to learn. 
-1	I have a basic knowledge of health because I was raised by my dad who was a doctor for over thirty years.
-1	I have no knowledge and I will not demonstrate any of it, because I can't.
1	Last fall I thought I had gas pain for a couple nights in a row. Once the pain got severe I looked online and saw my symptoms sounded more like gallstones. I texted a friend who had her gallbladder removed recently and she agreed with me. I saw my doctor a couple days later who did an ultrasound and confirmed I needed my gallbladder removed.
-1	My mother was in and out of the hospital with various health ailments throughout my growing up. You learn pretty quickly how the game of medicine works. 
-1	
1	My mother was recently diagnosed with osteoporosis.  When she called and was telling me about it, I understood the 2nd hand information she told me.
1	My roommate was interested in a fad diet and I explained to her the dangers of the diet and how lower caloric intake and exercise are guaranteed to be healthier and work better than the diet she was researching.
-1	I was put on antidepressants that had terrible side effects. After doing research I determined a milder better drug for me. 
1	I hurt my knee a few years back and it was on the weekend, so I made a doctor appointment for Monday. I researched basically everything about it and when I went to the doctor, he basically told me everything I already knew in order to care for my knee. 
1	I discussed with my doctor whether or not a mammogram was necessary based upon my age, family history and the current recommendations.
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health when I told my doctor what I knew about an illness. He said I knew more than he expected.
1	I was experiencing sharp pain in a sensitive area.  Rather than just call my doctor right away I looked online, collated data from a few reputable sources, and self-diagnosed.  I knew precisely what to do.  I did go see the doctor when it just got worse, all they really did was confirm my diagnosis, confirm that what I was doing was the best course of action, and send me home.
-1	I constantly have to remind doctors that I'm not allowed to have MRIs because I have metal pins in my chest
-1	
1	My boyfriendx has sleep apnea and together we researched everything about it, from what kind of drugs can cause it to what kind of food to avoid before bedtime to make the apnea better
1	When my son was born, he was circumcised and I was responsible for removing his bandage after we got home.  It was bloody and terrifying.  I am not confident in my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	Having a baby.  I researched everything and anything.  I also had a few issues with placenta previa, which led to more research and questions.
1	My son had open heart surgery when he was one month old. My oldest son had a condition we were uble to diagnose starting at 3 and continuing all the way up the 10 (was the last flare-up). The doctor picked one but we still aren't sure. I also work in an optical lab dealing with eye health.
1	I had surgery on my hamstring and I knew what my injury was before I even saw a doctor. I asked questions about the surgery making sure I knew all the details. I also always ask about medications knowing what works or me and what doesn't.
1	I guess when I was explaining to my doctor about my feelings of depression and I used terms like affect to describe my mood. That and also just my general knowledge about blood pressure and the like.
1	I am a medical biller so I deal with a wide array of issues.
-1	I dont know much about health or medical issues. I once thought I had something wrong with me and was positive thats what it was, until I went to a doctor and was told what was actually wrong with me. 
1	Having a newborn and knowing why she was having discharge (and not worrying about it) demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues.
-1	i look at youtube videos for information 
1	Last night I watched a basketball game and wondered if Tony Parker tore his ACL
-1	My mother, who lives with me, developed a skin rash on her neck. It lingered longer than it should have, and was not responsive to most OTC creams or lotions. I searched online for information best matching her symptoms, and discovered that she had eczema. A doctor's visit confirmed it.
1	I was away on a trip and I was having foot problems and was not able to get to a doctor until I got home. Using online resources I was able to diagnose plantar faicia, and when i got back and check it out it is what I had.
1	i don't really have any
-1	Um i don't have much experience at all. Last year I almost died because I had gallstones and had to have my gallbladder removed.
1	I felt unwell, extremely tired. I asked the doctor to test my thyroid and the results came back normal. The doctor prescribed me anti-depression mediciation, which I decided not to take. Instead, I saw a different doctor who diagnosed me as insulin resistant. 
1	Just day to day living - having kids, taking care of my own health.  Most of these questions are simple math.  
1	I have a lot of moles on my body and am constantly monitoring them and I have them checked twice a year by a dermatologist.  I had one that looked irregular to me and new so I went to the doctor about it and they agreed and had it removed.  It ended up being ok but because I knew what to look for I got to the doc right away and had it taken care of.
1	I have Lupus, I often have to demonstrate my knowledge of medical issues. Recently I had a flare and was not home but traveling, I had to explain to the treating physician my condition and my treatment plan. 
-1	When going to the doctor, I knew that I was having symptoms, so needed to have a test for a UTI.
1	I demonstrated a knowledge of medical issues when I knew I was pregnt. I missed my period, and figured that I was pregnt. 
1	My brother was sick with extreme thirst and fatigue. I recognized that he possibly had type 1 diabetis
1	I have been able to maintain a steady diet of high protein and slow digesting carbs by following nutrition guidelines. This has allowed me to have more energy throughout the day for work and exercise. 
1	My father was having pain in one of his legs.  I told him it could be a thrombosis and when he went to the doctor he got a scan and found out that that was what he had.
1	My father recently had a heart attack and I was the one who spoke to the doctors after they put stents in his heart. I was responsible in helping him divide his pills and mage his medications afterwards, 
1	I had a back injury that caused some paralysis, and even though my doctor thought it might be MS, I was convinced it was sciatica and a bulging disk. After being referred to a neurologist, that's what it turned out to be.
1	I work in mental health and have a bachelors and some post-bac work in the field, I work in a VA hospital
1	When I was in high school, I was very involved in a medical organization that helped train upcoming nurses and doctors. We studied the parts of the body and the most common diseases across the globe. I even competed in a competition against students from other schools in showcasing our knowledge of the medical field.
-1	these questions are a bit harder to answer. I have no knowledge of these above.
1	I was recently at the dentist talking about how my teeth were hurting but I was certain it was from a bacterial gum infection.  The Dentist took a look at told me I was exactly right and got me on some antibiotics right away so I could get over the infection quickly.
1	I had a goal of decreasing my blood sugar as I was pre-diabetic. I selected my own diet, which significantly reduced added sugar and processed flour. I was successful.
1	My dad had a stroke a few years ago. Since then, I have come to know a lot about cerebral hemorrhages, strokes and physical therapy.  I now know exercises to recommend for someone in the same situation. 
1	i once went to a dermatologist and was given a prescription and i was able to have that prescription filled at walgreens. that is about the extent of my knowledge of health or medical issues. i just do what the doctor tells me to do, but i rarely go to the doctor because of cost.
-1	They're hard to understand.
-1	I took my son to the doctor for a followup blood count after his chemotherapy due to a leukemia diagnosis.  The nurse gave me the test result sheet.  I was able to understand what his counts were and if he needed a blood transfusion or not.
1	I have helped my fiance to lose weight by having him track his calorie intake
-1	One situation that comes to mind is when I had to help my mother determine if she should go to the doctor or not. She was unsure if she was running a fever, and I was able to determine she should go to the doctor.
-1	My knowledge of health issues is being aware of my own health.  When I have something wrong with me, I do research to understand it better.  
-1	I had to determine my blood pressure when I had problems 
1	I have taken first aid courses. They have prepared me on what do to in the case of a medical emergency.
-1	Cervical cancer. I have had so many tests and surgeries to see if its gone. I have had part of my cervix taken out because of this. Because of this I promote awareness and cervical health.
1	When I started gaining weight all of a sudden and having hot flashes at night.  I knew I was going into menopause
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was when I was younger and experiencing fatigue and headaches. I knew this was most likely a health issue and made sure to seek medical help. 
1	With my first child I had csection.  I was told that it would be unwise and likely unsuccessful to pursue a VBAC with the birth of subsequent children.  Based on my own reasearch, I concluded that this was false.  I went on to have three very successful VBACs.
-1	When I had to go to the ER for a rash and the doctor didn't know what it was. I looked online before going and was able to give an idea of what it could be. So I was treated accordingly.
1	I have no professiol experience in the medical field. My son has a few genetic issues that keeps us very involved in doctors and hospitals. 
1	When my daughter was put on a new antidepressant I recognized that she was not responding correctly and needed to come off.  She called her doctor and he helped her taper off of it.  
1	My step daughter had a bad cough for days and she kept coughing up phlegm.  I told her that I thought she had strep throat.  She went to the doctor and it turns out I was correct.
1	Many times, I have helped my wife decide if we should take our daughter to the doctor or not based on symptoms and fevers. She wants to take her in for the slighest fever when toddlers and babies actually have a higher capacity than adults for fevers. Simply giving her tylenol and letting her sleep helps alot when she is sick.
-1	There was a time in which a friend of mine was experiencing symptoms of a panic attack and I asked the person what their symptoms were. After they told me they had trouble sleeping, had trouble controlling their worrying, and had physical symptoms as well I told them that they probably have anxiety and need to call up a Dr. 
1	I know my own body so I often will go to the doctor with a idea of what I have already. Usually the doctor will agree with that. I have also educated myself on common things in children so that I can be proactive when it comes to my childrens health. I ask the pediatrician lots of questions based on things  I already know about to show them I know my kids and what is going on. 
1	I am a physician assistant. I make decisions about medical conditions daily.
1	my brother complained of being tired and uriting often and I told him to get checked for diabetes and it turns out that it was at a borderline level
1	I broke out in a rash over most of my body. I went to the doctor about it, but they were not able to figure out the cause because the symptoms did not match anything they could think of. After spending some time researching, I went back to my doctor and requested a strep test to confirm scarlet fever. The test came back positive, the doctor said he would not have thought to check for that as the chances for it being scarlet fever is near 0 in someone like me at my age.
-1	 When I had my first son that I had Irish pregncy and I was able to understand what was going on from reading books in the Internet 
1	My cousin was diagnosed with a malignt brain tumor at 14. At the time, I understood the difference between benign and malignt
1	All I know is what I learned in school or reading medical stuff.  I haven't had any science classes since starting college, so it's all old except what's reported in the news or online.
1	College classes and health books. 
1	I helped keep people awake after a bad car accident until the paramedic arrived.
1	Recalling my prior medicine and allergies when talking to a new specialist. This helped speed up the examition process.
-1	GOOD
-1	I got sick with cellulitis and I researched on the internet to see what I had and I correctly diagnosed myself
1	I understand medical terminology, took atomy in high school.
1	When I was diagnosed incorrectly with diabetes, it was because I had been weight training and taking in loads of carbohydrates. I told the doctor this but he instisted. I didn't take medication and 2 months later at a follow up after not eating as many carbohydrates I was much finer.
1	I took a nutrition class in undergrad. My health law class in law school touched upon medical procedure (but not in great detail). I have also lost about 70 pounds which demonstrates my knowledge of diet and exercise. 
1	I recently had knee surgery from a medial meniscus tear.  The doctor explained that he was going to do the scope procedure to fix it, and I had done my research about this type of surgery and was able to discuss with him and demonstrate my knowledge of the issue I had.
-1	I was diagnosed with Diabetes. I learned a lot about what to do to help with it. I had to research quite a lot to understand this disease. I learned what foods to eat and how to be healthy.
1	Constantly reading medical jourls and being scientific in general
-1	One time I was worried about the pain in my mouth, I thought maybe my wisdom teeth were coming in and needed to be taken out. I went to the doctor and they confirmed my belief.
1	After the new doc had me get a bunch of blood tests to check for everything, we went over the results.  He stated that my Vit D was too low.  I told him that I had been aware of that because I wasn't drinking the amount of milk that I used to, and I don't spend a lot of time outside to get the Vit D.  We then went over how it makes me feel, and I was correct with assessing myself on that.
-1	I can read and understand the numbers of a blood pressure machine located inside a pharmacy or other store.
1	When I was frustrated with my doctor in the small town where I lived with my parents, I did research online to find a better doctor in a larger town. That demonstrated my willingness to look into different types of doctors and treatments. 
1	My father has diabetes, so I am constantly learning about it in order to help him stay on track with his disease. When we go to the doctor for his diabetes, I have to know what the doctor is talking about so that I can assist in making the best decision to mage is diabetes.
1	I've always known how to eat healthily.  I have researched nutrition and have fed my daughters by food guidelines for healthy children.  My oldest daughter is rarely sick, maybe less than once a year, and has only been seriously ill once or twice in eleven years.  I think this shows my knowledge about health and nutrition and how to take care of yourself.  My children's good health reflects my knowledge.
1	My father fell from our roof a few years ago, and so all of the medical information that he had given me came into play since he was incapacitated. Just knowing which questions to ask, the terms the doctors were using, and what I should expect was extremely helpful. 
1	A few years ago, my doctor recommend that I undergo a sleep study. I knew enough about sleep apnea from a relative having it when I was growing up to know that I probably also had the condition, based on my symptoms before being tested. I went through the sleep study and it was determined that I do in fact have sleep apnea.
1	Growing up, my grandfather was sick on and off for much of my childhood. Whether it was an issue with his heart, his kidneys, or his prostate, my mother was constantly traveling from home to take him to the doctor or to the hospital. She would explain what was happening to me as simply as she could. As I got older, and entered young adulthood, I'm able to understand medical issues thanks to having been around them for much of my life.
-1	I had contracted the Hep C virus for example and when I tested positive I did do a lot of research and found that there is a cure for it now by taking a pill for three months and having your blood monitored to make sure that it is no longer detected in the blood. My doctor did not know about this until I told her and we looked into it and went that route and now I am Hep C virus free!
-1	When I work every day I work with medical issues at the hospital I work with. I had a friend's father suffer from bipolar d/o and I was able to advise the treatment course based on my professiol experience with it and the medicine. 
1	I am able to understand 95% of the terms a doc uses so overall I am no slouch on medical information. The doc doesnt have to dumb down the results for me to understand which surprises a lot of docs.
1	I have popped my shoulder back in to place once
1	My daughter had a lot of medical issues at birth.  I did a lot of research and asked the drs a lot of questions to gain understanding of her conditions.
-1	The only time I can think of was when I was in intensive care and the nurse was talking to me about different pain medications, and I did already know a fair amount about them just from talking to people who take them regularly, it made me feel a little more at ease in a tense situation not to hear long drug mes being thrown about that I didn't know.
1	I'm not sure if I really have a knowledge of health or medical issues. A few years ago, I started eating a lot better because my dad had a massive heart attack, and started learning more about how sugars and bad fats were affecting my life experience, as well as the sty little nicotine habit I'd picked up. So the knowledge is really more overall.
1	I diagnosed and research a disease I had called hyperparathyroidism. I coordited the proper doctors and care to get myself taken care of.
1	I have been able to look up symptoms of having a flu and was able to correctly align the symptoms to show that it was the most likely cause of not feeling well.
1	Earlier this year I had to fill out some forms for my insurance.  I had no idea what they were asking for so I just guessed.  This is when I figured out I knew very little about the health care and insurance industry.
1	Nothing really just common sense and things i have learned over time from various sources.
1	I was having trouble breathing. I went to visit my doctor. I was able to successfully vigate all the test and result that she gave me. 
-1	I have many years of experience working in health care. I also have been in and out of doctors since childhood.
1	All I can think of is various experiences with my mother, who as I mentioned is disabled following a stroke. Monitoring her blood pressure and food intake as well as other issues of her care.
1	I had a friend who believed he had a spider bite on their leg. I recognized it as an infection and not a bite, and told them the should go to the doctor.
1	I had pain recently in my chest every time I coughed, and a long lasting cough. I knew I had pulled a muscle in my chest from coughing, and from the symptoms of my cough, I knew it wasn't serious even though it was lasting a long time. I went to the doctor to get my cough and chest examined. She confirmed that what I suspected was all correct.
1	I am currently taking classes for medical coding. I have passed A&P 1 and 2 with an A. I've always been interested in the healthcare field. 
1	I do a lot of research on my own regarding health issues, honestly a lot of times I do so to avoid going to the doctor. Also, I became very familiar with a lot of health issues while my daughter was in the hospital for several months.
1	I was able to research a medical condition ahead of my doctors appointment, based on previous test results that I had already seen. I was able to correctly predict the diagnosis.
1	I was having some serious issues with breathing and feeling hot/dizzy at seemingly random times. I talked to some friends and they just told me it would pass. It kept happening on several occasions and I started to think I was having some form of a panic attack. I filly made an appoint with a doctor and explained my issues. Eventually, I was able to go to his office during one of my episodes and he was able to conclude I was, in fact, having (rather severe) panic attacks.
1	I knew how to apply presuure to a wound to stop bleeding
1	Got tinnitus at a concert. Went to an ear doctor and they were astonished that I had permanent tinnitus. Told me it happens usually in older people. They tried to condescendingly explain to me that overexposure to sound caused the damage. I told them I knew this. They hit me with tuning forks. I couldn't hear a tone and I asked them how many Hz it was - they had to double check because they didn't know. It was 400 Hz.
1	I had to learn how my weight is affecting my health. I learned how my fatty liver is dangerous and what my target goals are to lessen my risk. I learned how to reach those goals.
-1	20 yrs in the health care field. ranging from the ER to surgery. 
1	I work in employee benefits I am required to have a basic knowledge of different medical procedures strictlty for coverage purposes
-1	I know a lot about animal protein, I'm currently Vegan and recolonize how much eating animals effects our health, heart problems and high blood pressure are mostly cause from eating animals.
-1	I visited a friend that had a bypass and i was asking him about the surgery and what they did, he didn't really know, so i explained it to him.
1	I have a little bit of medical terminology knowledge because I have experience in the medical field from when I was in the military.  I understand enough and what I don't, I can look up to find the meaning for understanding. 
1	I sprained my ankle and was able to successfully treat it and mage rehab for it.
1	I have had uriry tract infections a few times, enough that I recognize the symptoms and am familiar with treatment. I also know that the kidneys can be susceptible to infection in such cases, so I went to the doctor when I had lower back pain.
1	I have shown a basic knowledge of health throughout my pregncy. I am 9 months pregnt, and whenever I needed further clarification I would ask questions.
1	I knew that ibuprofen and acetminophen are different
-1	I think that what gave me the most knowledge was when my dad had a heart attack and we all were told of his chances and life expectancy after the surgery. It really hit home to a lot of us because at the time several of us were still smoking and that was the first thing the doctor said we should all stop doing. 
1	I was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes when I was 16. When I moved to a new city when I was 22 I had to find a new doctor. One of the requirements of my new doctor was to meet with a nutritionist and a diabetes educator. I had to demonstrate to each of them my knowledge of the disease and show that I was capable of maging it. 
1	My husband that passed away had diabetes and wounds that required care. He also had kidney failure and other things. I was very attentive to the doctors and learned a million things about how to take care of him and myself. 
1	I'm not sure I am more knowledgeable than the average person. I've had a basic atomy class in college but that's about it. I've been to the doctor and had been in a bad car wreck in the year 2000, but those experiences didn't really increase my knowledge. 
1	Recently I have been losing weight. I have done this be operating in a caloric deficit. Even without exercising I have lost weight.
-1	I have psoriasis, which is an autoimmune disease.  When I read about other auto-immune diseases, I have a good understanding of what the article is talking about.
1	I am someone who has been able to talk with my friends and get them out of trouble that could have cost them their health.
-1	I was able to treat my cold by drinking lots of fluids.
1	one time I was getting a prescription for anti biotics. the doctor asked if i took it before and i said yes. she asked if i had constipation with it and i said it wasn't too bad. I told her that I knew that if I took pro biotics as well it would help replenish my gut flora and my digestion would be healthier. she agreed.
1	An uncle of mine had issues with his shoulder. He asked me for advice, as I have some orthopedic knowledge. He had a shoulder replacement done but had some pain afterwards. I spoke with him and told him a few tests to have his orthopedist administer, and they found the underlying issue for most of his pain.
1	At one point when I had a large amount of blood in my urine I went to see a local urinologist.  We discussed the fact that I had kidney stones present in my uriry system, and I felt like I had a good comprehension of what my then state of health was.  Whenever I had a question about the subject I felt comfortable asking him for greater detail.
1	I'm pregnt and I just recently chose how to have my baby. My doctor gave me several options, I did the research and I decided how I wanted to proceed.
1	"I know how to mage my asthma well enough by now that it's exhausting if I see a new doctor and they try to give me asthma pamphlets. I went to an urgent care once to refill a prescription before a trip, and the woman treating me tried to lecture me about how to mage my asthma and handed me ""what is asthma?"" pamphlets. There was literally no reason for this; my asthma had been fine for years and I'd heard everything already."
1	My dad got diagnosed with diabetes so I helped him come up with some meals that won't be bad for his blood sugar.
1	I recently went to the dentist and was able to easily describe my tooth pain and also tell him which tooth # it was according to knowing the tooth chart
-1	My own experience going to the doctors over the years and learning as I go.  I do research on the internet.  
1	When in a pharmacy or store searching for over-the-counter medicine, it is up to the individual to decide what they require. No doctor is available to give advice, only the knowledge you currently have, and the information on the labels. From having children, I've grown accustomed to reading and interpreting these labels on children's medicine.
1	My boyfriend had cirrhosis and I was his caregiver.  I learned to determine when it was appropriate to take him to the hospital for elevated ammonia levels without lab results.
-1	I studied about cannibis oil and COPD for my mom. She has been taking it and has improved greatly. 
1	I occasiolly get lots of bloodwork done. I used to go to a lab that would provide the results online so I could review them. I was able to look up what these would normally be online so I could determine if I was in the correct levels for each test.
-1	When a friend cut his thumb really badly. I was able to help him to get the bleeding to stop so that I could get him to the emergency room.
1	When my nephew ate peanut butter he started having an allergic reaction but because I knew about his epipen I was able to take it out and help him stop the reaction.
1	In addition to having 2 children and 3 minor surgeries, I graduated with a degree in exercise science that required me to take multiple atomy/physiology classes. After graduation I worked in both a general practitioners office and in an orthopedic surgeon's office. I was exposed to plenty of medical issues there.
-1	the only knowledge i have is both my mom and dad are in the medical feild
1	After injuring my core area when weightlifting I rightly assumed that I had somehow strained a muscle. After visiting the hospital my assumptions were proven correct.
1	When I had my daughter and my water broke, I knew something was wrong. I had done research on what the liquid would look like and my liquid was different. I explained this to the nurse thinking that I had an infection based on the fluid color and she didn't take me seriously but then the doctor diagnosed me with an infection of the amniotic sac. 
1	I went to an ER and had researched my problem beforehand and asked the doctor if he thought I was having esophageal spasms. He thought that was a possibility but was generally stumped, I felt I knew more than him about the differentials
1	Someone I was playing ping pong with collapsed. I started doing Cpr on them. 
1	Kind of a vague question to ask about. When I had appendicitis, I was able to process the information and knew what the surgery and recovery would be like without being told. I made arrangements before hand that would help. 
1	I read a lot to learn. When I was ive enough to trust a doctor who deliberately messed up my knee I had to learn a lot about what he had done and how to fix it.
1	I calculate the sugar that in the package of cookie before I eat it.
1	I have not had that experience.
-1	Having to research and read about my results when a doctor just rambles it off.  Either researching the true meaning or asking a friend who is a nurse.  Just understanding that certain things are not good versus things that are.
-1	I knew I had a broken finger when I looked at it, and it was twisted the wrong way. That is my medical skill level.
-1	My daughter had an ovarian tumor at 11 years old. I took her to 9 doctors who would not treat her because of being uninsured. When I filly took her to the E.R., they explained the treatment and that she would need surgery. I understood this fully. 
1	I have successfully diagnosed patients in the past. I have also known when to bring myself in.
1	I don't really have any.  If I have a question in this area I ask my friends that work in healthcare.  I have mainly concerned myself with studying what foods and how much I should exercise in order to have good health.  
1	I honestly don't have one.  Any situation that required more than a band aid  I went to a doctor for because I had no relevant knowledge or experience.
1	I had lyme disease and I diagnosed myself. I had to travel 100 miles to a doctor that would give me the right type of tests to find it. The local doctor just gave me one test and said I didn't have it.
1	I guess school would be one instance. Just learning about the body and other issues.
1	This happened when my aunt was diagnosed with Breast Cancer last year. Since I have already lost a friend to breast cancer and have a friend who has been a cancer survivor, i was able to pass on some informed knowledge to my family on this issue.
-1	I twisted my foot once. I had a strong suspicion that it was metatarsal fracture. I went to the doctor and had it xrayed. It was in fact a metatarsal fracture.. It hurt a lot, didn't make it any less painful but at least i knew what kind of recovery i was in for
1	I eat healthy and try to maintain a healthy lifestyle so I like to learn about health.
1	I don't really have anything fantastic to share, other than knowing CPR at school. So when someone there choked, I was able to help them out pretty quickly.
1	One experience that demonstrated knowledge of medical issues is when I started having headaches, some useau and being dizzy. I looked up the symptoms online and concluded that I probably had a migraine. To combat this I tried avoiding some of the triggers that caused these problems.
1	My uncle recently had a stent placed in his heart. I was able to understand and know what the different percentages of blockages were in his heart as well as his ejection fraction.
1	One time i had hyperthyroid diagnosed. I was a bio major in college. We actually had an endocrinology class. I understood the terms used by the doctor
1	I had a rash that I thought was caused by skin contact to my shoes.  My doctor confirmed this in a test.
1	I have worked as a C and been around a lot of nurses and doctors.
1	When I last saw a doctor, I was told that it's important that I get exercise at least three times a week. Ever since then, I've been religiously working out three or more times a week. Since then, I've had more energy and felt happier about life in general.
1	I have had swelling of my face for quite a few years now. When I first got this, I was told to take a steroid. I had no clue why I would have to take a steroid. Well I now know hat steroids actually help to reduce swelling
1	My friend's mom mentioned she was having a lot of usea and dizziness throughout the day. Based on what I learned in school, I thought she had vertigo. Turns out she did.
1	While i was pregnt there is a lot of info that you need to know. I was very well-informed. 
1	After having been diagnosed with a medical condition that might need surgery, I have read and learned enough material to possibly avoid getting the surgery.
1	When my wife was having stomach pains i suggested we go to the hospital and it might be an ulcer or her appendix. When we got to the hospital those were the first two things that the doctor mentioned he would be looking for
1	Well, when my dad got Parkinson's disease, due to my neuroscience background, I was able to help him understand his illness better.  I not only provided him with literature but also guided him through what we believe is happening on a cellular/neurol level.  He was very appreciative and later decided to learn more about it on his own.  
1	Going to doctor's appointments during my pregncy, plus appointments for my son.
-1	I have not been in such a situation
-1	I had a ganglion cyst and when i went to the doctor for a check up,he was very impressed to know that i had all the information about it.
1	I get sinus infections fairly often. For this reason, I have to switch up antibiotics and steroids so that I do not get used to them. It is important that I know the side effects of the medications I  am on because each one is different.
1	My grandmother developed dementia, and I became responsible for arranging her medical care and administering her medications correctly. I succeeded.
1	I can often pinpoint what is wrong with friends just by having spent lots of time around a doctor.
-1	I am very a lot about different types of pain medicines because I have researched and done a lot of them.
-1	I told the doctor that I had a blood clot and he kept saying that I didnot until I went back for a CT scan that revealed a blood clot.
1	An experience that i have is when i started taking a perscription medicine and it showed all the risk's in percents and also in the standard of 1 in 5 or 1 in 10 makes me a little more knowledgable by trying to learn about the percents
1	Started developing hard lumps in my arms.  Had them checked out and found out they were lypomas.  No risk of cancer but they can cause pain so I had them removed.
1	I had a bad gallbladder. One day I noticed that the whites of my eyes had a yellowish tinge to them. I immediately went to the emergency room because I knew that this was a problem.
1	Suffering from diverticulosis, I was in a conversation with another person who also had the pockets in their colon. I knew of some foods specifically popcorn, foods with skins and seeds that were known to aggravate the condition. I was able to tell them that those foods should be avoided which they did not know beforehand. 
1	I lost a kidney and was in and out of the hospital for close to 6 months due to complications with the surgery. I picked up quite a few bits of medical knowledge during that experience
1	My normal temperature is around 96.5 so I knew when my temperature was 101 I should go to the emergency room. I was boiling.
1	Well, I've taken a few cpr courses and was able to utilize them fully in an emergency involving someone at a golf course.
-1	I do this almost daily, I am an nurse. Its part of my job
1	My friend messaged me freaking out because on of her clients said a patch on her skin looked like skin cancer. She sent me a picture and I immediately recognized it as exzema. She felt a little better but went to her doctor to check and it was exzema
1	I am a pharmacist so it happens almost every day. Having to counsel a patient on what they should take based on their symptoms, or explaining to them the things they didn't understand from the Dr. 
1	When I was experiencing chest pain and arm pain and knew to get to the hospital since it could indicate a heart attack. Don't worry, it wasn;t though.
1	I work as the lead MRI technologist at my facility so it is very important that I am well-versed in many aspects of medical issues. Oftentimes the type of MRI I perform will be determined by the patient history as well as what I can see on the scan.
1	
1	My doctor prescribed me coedine. I told her about my past with coedine and Kaiser hospital. She then understood and prescribed me a different medicine.
1	A few years ago I was in bed with a fever and heavy fatigue. I had no desire to go to the doctor as I felt that bed rest was the best thing for me and that it was likely viral. After being dragged to the doctor by a loved one, I was sent back home with no medicine and recommended bed rest.
1	I have Hep C.  I found this out after doting blood.  I did quite a bit of reading on the diseases because of this.
1	I have high blood pressure during pregncy. My doctor suggested inducing me a few days before my due date due to this fact. I agreed with him because I understood the risks associated with high blood pressure during pregncy. 
1	I had a mole that looked like it had unclear edges looked at and removed 
1	I had an abnormal mole on my bavk. I knew the signs to watch for skin cancer because of research I did. I went to the Doctor and a biopsy cam back abnormal. They removed the mole and since it was caught early, I had no complications.
-1	When I was young, both my big toes got infected at the same time, for some reason. The doctor said I needed surgery. But I had heard somewhere that for an  infected toe, you should soak it repeatedly in saltwater--which I did, and the infections went away.
1	My father takes a baby aspirin every day to reduce the chance of heart attack. I provided him the copy of the origil paper and worked out the effect size and showed him how he was actually reducing the chance of heart attacks by an insanely small amount. I did this so he would save money instead of throwing it at Bayer.
1	A few years ago, I suffered an orbital blowout. I live in a relatively small town, so when I heard that I would need surgery to fix it, I immediately began researching doctors in a larger city about 3 hours away. I knew they would be more skilled in fixing my issue. When I got to the doctor in the big city, he was horrified by the treatment I had received from the doctor's in a small town at the initial appointments (so I could receive a referral to this doctor) and was very glad I had come to see him instead. I felt this experience showed that I knew what was best for myself, and that I was knowledgeable about the type of medical care I needed to receive.
1	I would say anytime someone asks me about pregncy. As funny as it is I have 4 children so I always kind of feel knowledgeable in that area, most times I have experienced it pretty much all/ 
-1	Was told I am pre-diabetes.  I therefore did research to learn how to lower my risks.
1	I have had to take care of a kid who burned themselves with very hot grease.  I knew the severity degrees of burns and was able to determine that the kid had first and second degree burns, so they did not need to go to the hospital.
1	when I recently reviewing my son's bloodwork results and looked at his results against the the range that was allowable for each value.
1	I had a lump in my testicular. I was able to determine by its texture that it was a cyst. I went to the doctor but already knew with research the issue. 
1	I recently had blood work done and I was given the results that showed what a normal range would be and what my actual results were.  I was able to interpret this fairly ease and see that almost all of my results were within normal parameters and to note that few areas where they were outside the normal.  
1	I don't understand this question. I will try to answer the best I can. I was experiencing horrible abdomil pain and it was like a burning sensation and stabbing knives. I remembered in health class being told all the issues in the digestive tract, and believed it to be reflux disease, which it turned out to be after testing. 
1	I read about depression a while ago and its effects, such as fatigue and a persistent loss of interest. I also read about auditory and physical hallucitions connected to psychosis.
1	When I had a sore throat with white patches I knew to go to the doctor to find out if it was strep because untreated strep can cause problems later.
-1	My girlfriend was suffering from a severe iron deficiency. Her doctor ran some tests but it would be awhile before we heard about the results. So i googled and googled about possibilities and found one that was never mentioned to us before. I told my girlfriend and we were able to relax a bit more.
1	My mom had breast cancer. I had to educate myself about it and take care of her post-surgery, as well as during chemo and radiation. 
1	My daughter has kidney disease and I had read everything I could about her disease before I met with her specialists. The doctors were surprised by my knowledge of the disease and possible treatments and outcomes.
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when my friend took their temperature and said it was 98 degrees and assumed that was high. I know that average temperature is 98.6. I told them this and relieved their concerns as a result of my knowledge.
1	When my dad died of kidney failure due to diabetes, I spent a long time studying diabetes, its risk factors, and its outcomes.
1	I have had a few conditions requiring surgery and a couple injuries that required a specialist. I've also had two at/high risk pregncies. 
-1	When I was pregnt with my second child I knew all the symptoms I was having of normal back pain and Braxton hicks because of being pregnt with my first child.
1	I used to do a lot of reviews on surgeon procedures, so one day my doctor showed me x-rays of some of the procedures that were going to be done to a family member. To my surprise, I knew what the charts were showing.
1	My son spit out a new food that was in his mouth, he started getting hives and itching. I knew it was an allergic reaction to that food so we gave him an epipen, benedryl and took him to the ER in case there was a secondary reaction.
-1	I worked as an EMT many years ago so my children frequently call me if something is happening they think I can help with. Recently my son-in-law felt dizzy, faint, and was sweating a lot. I felt he was probably having some type of panic attack, but I erred on the side of caution and called EMS. Those were also signs of a heart attack.
-1	My brother recently developed asthma. I have a long history with asthma so I am able to give him advice. In the beginning he was worried and asked many questions.
1	My second c-section.  I knew what to expect and how everything would go so I was pretty relaxed and confident through it all.
1	I turned to homeopathic medicine for my hormol deficiency issues. I studied the subject for quite a while and came out with a proper remedy for my condition. 
1	I worked as a nurses aid for three years. 
1	I work for a health insurance company right now. So I talk to a lot of people regrading their health and medical issues. So I'd say that at this time in my life, I have a large amount of knowledge on the topic.
1	My daughter had a fever every night. I took her to the doctor twice and he said she probably had a virus. I knew this couldn't be right with the constant fever at nights. I took her to the emergency room and it turned out she had pneumonia.
-1	I WAS AN ALCOHOLIC TWELVE YEARS AGO. I KNEW IF I DIDN'T STOP I WOULD BE DEAD.
1	I heavily researched pregncy when I was pregnt with my son. I felt informed about my health and what was happening to my body.
1	I understood when I had to go to the emergency room for my grandmother's stroke. She could smell toast and had other symptoms that stood out. I immediately drove her to the hospital. 
-1	When I have gone to the doctor sometimes I have heard of what the best test would be or what they should do. Like when I went to the doctor with swollen lymph nodes and a throat that I could not swallow food with, I insisted they give me a strep test and lucky that they did because I had strep throat. 
1	When I turned 22 I was diagnosed with Chronic asthma. After that I began asking questions and reading online as much as I could about medicine and other medical tasks. 
1	I felt like I was knowledgeable about health and medical issues when I was having a conversation about them with my sister. She was asking me a lot of questions and I knew most of the answers to them.
1	I went to the hospital last year for constant vomiting and I could tell the doctor my symptoms and kept track of how often I vomited. I knew how to find my temperature and knew what he was talking about for treating me for the most part. 
-1	I was diagnosed with a chronic illness. Learning about how it affects me helps explain most of my problems.
1	Family had medical issues constantly and I have read a lot of documents on it. 
1	My mother was a registered nurse who worked in the operating room, often as a scrub nurse. She'd come home from work and over dinner talk about cases. While I haven't had medical trauma beyond a stitches to my lip, a sprained wrist, and a bad case of conjunctivitis, I have lost a few family members to cancer and stroke.
-1	i have issues with afib
1	My uncle was affected by cancer so I look it up on the internet and asked the doctor about more details. So, I gain some knowledge about it.
1	Daily I have to check my blood pressure to know whether or not to take a 2nd dosage of my medication.  I must know what my goal blood pressure is in order to know if a single dosage was enough.
1	I have always had an interest in medicine. When I was a child I wanted to enter the medical field but I never did but the fascition was always with me. I have been a patient advocate for many of my friends over the years to help them vigate a health crisis and have learned a lot along the way.
-1	When I got Bronchitis. I knew that I had it from previous experiences. I went to the doctor and told him what I thought I had. That's what I had. I new the medicine I would get.
1	
1	I had to decide whether not to repair my torn labrum. He told me that there was a 90% chance that without the surgery I would dislocate my shoulder again and that risk increased the more I used it. In the end I decided to go ahead with the surgery. 
-1	I got diagnosed with shingles when I was 21 and I went to the doctor for it and got informed of plenty of knowledge about shingles.
1	I went to go ask a doctor about an antidepressant I was taking and I asked her about withdrawal symptoms, tapering off the drug or switching to a different SSRI because the body goes through SSRI withdrawals and you may experience a reaction if you switch dosage or medications. 
-1	When I had to go the University of Utah Medical Center for a heart transplant workup. I had to give them information for myself as well as my family so they could do genetic research to see if why I have congestive heart failure is due to a genetic problem. 
-1	"Well, I was able to ""diagnose"" Lyme Disease in my dog based on symptoms that I had experienced in myself once. If I had waited, the dog might have had further complications, but as soon as I noticed she seemed to be having joint pain, I rushed her to the vet."
1	I read a lot and science and medicine are topics of interest to me. Also, I've lost both parents to cancer so I've been in and out of hospitals a lot. My son, too, suffers from ADHD, so I've done a lot of research online about his condition.
1	My son is allergic to peanuts and related foods.  One day he ate something that caused an allergic reaction.  I read the directions and administered an Epi-Pen dose before driving him to an urgent care center.
1	I am the primary caretaker for my elderly parents and as such taken them to their doctor appointments, administer their medications and carry out all instructions from there doctors. I have had to learn quite quickly over the past two years of all the medical conditions and treatments that affect them.
1	Knowing how people treat their diabetes
1	"When my doctor tried to force me on a synthetic thyroid medication. I had a history of not tolerating the drug well, but yet he would not refill my tural thyroid medication until I tried it. He said it ""had better research"". I unwillingly switched, and within a week demanded I be switched back to my tural thyroid medication. "
1	As a Soldier, I once had to install a saline lock and start fluids on a wounded patient in the back of a Humvee.
1	I was being treated with one GLP-1 agonist, but it was changed to non-covered by my insurance. I called my specialist and asked if he could prescribe a different one, gave him the other drugs in class, and asked if one of them wouldn't be better than the other options (although not as good as the dropped one) based on study-based efficacy.
1	I have Hashimoto, a thyroid disease. I have been learning what my average levels should be, and when I need to be on or off of my medicine. The warning signs of when I should have my blood levels tested also.
-1	not very knowledgeable about heatlth 
1	I don't have any specific experience, but I've read up on things on webMD, and have also taken a first aid course and an atomy course when I was in college.
1	I worked for a company called Parker Hannifin in South Korea 15 years ago and they employed some Filipinos. As part of employment they had a liver function test. The test was positive. The Korean mager wanted me to be there to help discussing this result with the employees. The mager mistakenly gave the test information as being dire. I corrected him and explained that this test is a prelimiry test that only means you have to get additiol tests before there can be a conclusion.
1	My physician told me I had high blood pressure once during an exam, and I instantly asked the numbers. They were within the range where diet and exercise could still reduce my blood pressure without medication, so I asked if I needed medication and they said not. My ability to understand my numbers and subsequently treat myself is an example of me being able to understand medical outcomes.
1	Supporting my dad in the hospital when he had a heart attack - talking to doctors, figuring out best way to proceed
-1	i dont have any experiences
-1	I work as a security guard. While covering an outdoor event I had to perform CPR on someone. I had to perform for a long time before the paramedics came. When they came they told me I saved a life because if I didn't perform CPR, the person would not have made it. My training helped me to know what to do to save the life.
1	going for allergy shots, when during the waiting period did not feel great, immediately administered emergency medication and went to the doctor.
1	While seeing a new eye doctor for the first time I was able to accurately describe my condition and its potential impact on my future, the doctor was impresses by my understanding and comprehension of my condition.
1	i got an infection in my leg. I knew it wouldnt go away on its own. My doctor informed me that antibiotics would take care of it after getting it drained.
1	My mom was having problems with kidney stones, and I did some research and told her to ask the doctor about a few kinds of different treatments and preventative measures. The doctor was just treating her symptoms but did not really seem to be looking for a cause.
-1	I have learned a lot from having anxiety and panic attacks. I can help other people who describe their symptoms to me if they are similar to what I experience. 
-1	Had to give friend diabetic shot of insulin
1	My wife is a Type 1 diabetic. I have been able to knowledgeably discuss her needs with doctors, nurses and representatives from medical equipment manufacturers.
-1	There was a time when i had to help a friends father with giving him a insulin shot for his diabetes. Nobody was around and he needed his shot so i gave it to him and knew exactly how and what to do.
-1	surgury on my back,meds and heal time.lots of doctor visits over all and nevered healed right
-1	While I was pregnt, I paid close attention and studied everything I needed to know about all different types of situations I should be alert for.  I felt that I went into my appointments with my OB and understood approx. 95% of everything she said I would need at that time.  When I was diagnosed with preclampsyia my doctor wanted to induce me however the babies heart rate was dropping considerably throughout the night and the induction had barely been started.  I knew that it would be more beneficial for the health of the baby and myself if I had a c section right away, then if I waited to try and induce labor, go through the practice for the next few days and wear out both my body and the baby.  Having knowledge and understanding helped me make a very important medical decision and the health of my baby benefited from that decision.
-1	I would say simply knowing when and why one should take antibiotics. I have always tried my best to stay away from taking medicaiton. 
1	I've gained 40 pounds in the last 4 years.  I know that this is not good, it is not healthy.  It increases my risk for various ailments.  I need to lose the weight I have put on.
-1	When I was diagnosed with Hodgkins Lymphoma, I quickly researched all that I could about the cancer, and quickly became VERY knowledgeable about the disease, and what to expect with the chemo treatments, as well as my survival rate.
1	When my friend got minor frostbite, I knew to tell her to not run it under hot water like she was planning. Having that level of severe temperature damages the cells even more, so you have to run lukewarm water over it to avoid damaging the skin.
1	talking with  my gp about dealing with some health issues with dietary changes and supplementation rather than taking a prescription. i showed him the research i'd been reading (i'm not in medicine but am a published microbiologist) and he agreed to try it my way. my improved test results a year later supported my research.
1	I took my daughter to the doctor after I discovered a growth under her arm. I did some research and discovered it was MRSA. I ordered some Manuka honey for topical treatment and we also took the drugs he prescribed. I'm not sure which worked best but she was cured of it. 
1	I'm not really sure what you mean. I have taken college level statistics which has given me some knowledge on how to process percentages and chances.
1	I knew I needed a root cal when I needed a root cal.
1	Cooking healthy requires knowledge of calories carbs fats.. I've migraines and it's important for me to look at labels for prvention of migraines. 
1	I have tremors in my hands and I knew it was essential tremors and not Parkinson because Parkinson your hands shake when they are at your side while sitting and essential tremors don't do that.
1	I was taking care of my Dad and carefully monitored his sugar and diet
1	I am able to teach my girlfriend on what kinds of foods to eat or to avoid based on my experience of eating healthy my entire life. I sometimes also ask my doctor questions about certain foods to gain more knowledge on that subject of health. In addition, I have learned a lot about diabetes through my sister because she has it. I am able to educate more people on it now that I have some familiarity behind it. 
-1	While having blood clots I have to watch sitting for long periods, going on long trips, and flying for very long periods with out getting up. I have to move every few hours to prevent these clots
-1	When I had appendicitis, I knew before I was diagnosed based on my symptoms. I was proven correct by my doctor.
-1	I have had rotator cuff surgery in the past year.
1	I have COPD and have had a number of broken bones and have looked up a lot of things.  also am very curious and have studied everything from diets to pharmacology
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues is having one of my own. I keep up with everything about my medical issues and always ask questions about it. 
1	Lots of hospital tv shows. Lol... Just basic knowledge and most of these are math story problems which is pretty much common sense math.
-1	I knew how to read my prescription labels and take my medicine properly.
1	As a lifeguard, it is imperative to know about health and medical issues. I must be aware of what to do in injury situations, as well as how to treat common injuries or illnesses I encounter.
1	Before I went to the hospital for a nervous break down, I already knew I was also Bi-Polar (thanks to the web) When I began telling them my symptoms and they filly diagnosed me with it, i wasn't shocked and already knew what I needed to deal with for life.
1	Every time I go to the doctor I read health brochures. 
-1	Cancer mutations with taking targeted drug medicine for lung cancer because of my husband's cancer history, and I know a lot of statistics are out of date with cancer survival rates.
1	A friend was having breathing problems and refused to go to the emergency room. I looked up his symptoms online and convinced him to seek treatment right away. My diagnoses was proved correct.
1	"I used to be a customer service worker at a gym.  My gym offered equipment orientations to people.  The people who did the equipment orientations were supposed to have training and/or credentials that I did not have.  One night there was an equipment orientation scheduled, and the only person who was supposed to present the information had to deal with another problem.  So I started the orientation and explained how to use the treadmill safely, despite not being ""properly"" trained."
1	The closest I can get to an experience like that is by telling anyone who asks me for medical assistance to go to a doctor and ask them. I don't really have any persol medical knowledge.
1	I correctly self-diagnosed my torn Achilles Tendon in high school. I got confirmation from professiols later, but before I could meet them I was able to mage it well because I knew what was wrong
1	My daughter had a nose bleed, everyone said tilt your head back. I said no, tilt yor head forward and apply pressure.
1	I've had to spend quite a bit of time in hospitals growing up, and getting a lot of surgeries.  I had to go to the doctor a lot and be very inquisitive about my conditions because if i didn't have the right info, and went to another doctor bad things could have happened, Misdiagnoses.
1	My father has heart issues.  A few months ago, I found him sitting on the couch, not breathing.  I gave him CPR until the paramedics came and he lived. I learned CPR when I was a teeger and this is the first time I have had a chance to use it.
1	These felt more like math problems rather than medical problems. Since I've been studying math in my undergraduate career, they didn't feel so hard to answer. 
1	One of my coworkers, who is a female, was feeling off. She didn't think it was a big deal, but I told her to go to the hospital. I did this because I knew females have varying symptoms for heart attacks. It turns out she did have a heart attack. 
1	I take Vitamin C for in creasing my immune system 
1	I learn a lot about ears in my classes and how to diagnose ear infections. A friend of mine was feeling dizzy and stuffy and had a hearing exam done after I recommended that she see an audiologist because her symptoms could be indicative of something worse.
-1	I feel very knowledgeable about health issues and medical things. I was in the field for years, and physically could not do it anymore. If it weren't for my back, I might still be in the medical field.
1	I was diagnosed with A-fib a couple of years ago, but I had only experienced the symptoms a couple of times ever. The doctor wanted to put me on a daily medication that lowered my heart rate. My heart rate is already turally low, so I questioned the doctor about putting me on a daily medication for something that had only ever happened twice in my life. She agreed with me and gave me a different prescription to take as needed, and I haven't needed to take one as of yet.
1	I had to keep track of my mother's cancer treatment regimen which meant maintaining a walking encyclopedia of her more than 30 year journey with technology, medications and procedures.
1	Recently my mom had shoulder replacement surgery. I was in the hospital with her and explained the medications and intervention the surgeon was going to use. 
1	I don't have a specific experience. But I've read about general medical conditions over the years.
1	I recently spoke with a friend about her abnormal period. Since I'm currently going through treatment for the same issue I told her what I had discussed with my Dr. I was able to give her an outline of the options for treatment.
-1	my husband woke up blind in one eye. i googled it and found he had a stroke in his eye. went to the hospital and the confirmed it.
1	I have no first hand experience with health or medical issues, however, extensive schooling has given me a lot of experience with how to deal with chronic issues and how to deal with symptoms. 
1	I was helping my dad build a deck, and he was on a ladder. The ladder ended up giving out causing him to fall. He was in a lot of plain, but he is stubborn and tried to get up. I recognized that he was probably more hurt than he let on and told him to remain down until the EMTs arrived. It turned out he had broken his back and several ribs.
-1	I was put on new blood pressure medicine and asked the questions and was able to take it as perscribed
-1	It was when I was pregnt and knew I had issues right from the start.  I told the doctors I had low progesterone and they did blood work to test for it.  It came back positive, but there was one test left that they could do.  I kept insisting that it was the issue.  It wasn't until they did the biopsy that they found out that I was right and gave me the meds to help out the issue.
1	I was giving birth to identical twins which carried a lot of risk of complications. I informed myself of the risks and made sure ask related questions during my appointments. I was able to give birth without any worry or unknowns because I had adequately studied and understood all the possible outcomes. 
1	I took health courses in my College that left me with very informative education on health and medical issues.  One time I had pain in my inner ear area, and I figured it must be from impacted ear cerumen.  My intuition was correct and after going to the ENT, they removed it from me and the pain went away.
1	In caring for my father I have a lot involvement in his medical issues. I am able to demonstrate my medical knowledge by being aware of changes and discussing them with the doctors. 
1	The last time I went to the doctor they told that I should lower my cholesterol.  I was able to do this by eating healthier and exercising more
1	I volunteer with a peoples group that is known for higher risk of medical issues. In trying to help and understand the people I'm serving, I've researched conditions that they are dealing with. 
-1	I cannot think of an experience in my life that truly demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues.
1	As a child I had something called PANDAS, which is a bad reaction to strep throat that leads to OCD and anxiety. So, now I'm very good at detecting symptoms of strep early on, and always go to the dotor when I have a sore throat, to prevent undiagnosed strep from hurting my mental health.
-1	I had been injured in a bad car accident and was responsible for my medical care. I trusted my doctor to refer me to good care, and he did. I went to several specialists and was able to heal well.
1	I was having some heart problems recently, and after seeing a specialist and having some tests, I was able to receive a diagnosis from the specialist. I was able to demonstrate my knowledge of this when I eventually relayed that information to my boyfriend and family, who were also waiting to hear what the issue was. 
1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy and needed to read material on the disease, what type I had and the medicines I will be taking.
1	My mother was a diabetic, and I had to learn alot about the disease.  I helped her give herself her daily injections and learned quite a bit about insulin. 
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues when I started feeling light headed and almost passed out, I knew to take my pulse and drink a cool glass of water.
-1	One time I pulled a muscle in my leg bad. It hurt really bad but I knew that if that happens you have to reduce inflammation. So I applied ice to it and by the next day it felt a lot better.
1	I do medical checkups once a year. After I get the report, I can understand what the report entails and change my diet to get certain levels back to normal range. 
-1	 I really can't think of any I don't have many health issues   
1	I actually can't think of an experience that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	My son was exhibiting signs of hypothyroidism. Because I have this condition it was likely he did also.
1	I work as an administrative assistant in a medical office. I also have worked as a patient care technician and have had to record blood sugars, food intake, etc. 
1	I have migraines and I know to sit in a dark room with high humidity to reduce my migraines, since migraines can be caused by specific lights. 
1	Once my son was diagnosed with a syndrome by a geneticist without having any genetic blood testing done.  Over the next few years I kept bringing symptoms my son was having to the doctor's attention because they did not seem to be associated with the syndrome he was diagnosed with.  The doctor didn't listen to what I was saying.  I took him to another geneticist who agreed with me and did genetic blood testing on my son.  It turns out he did not have the origil syndrome he was diagnosed with but he had a completely different syndrome.
1	A person at my work had a stroke. I noticed that her face was becoming droopy. She said she was feeling a little off but she was okay. I called 911 right away. The doctor told her she could have been much worse if I hadn't noticed the signs of a stroke.
1	I had to have my gallbladder removed so I investigated everything that it entailed and what I could expect. I also found out what to expect after it was removed so I was prepared when I had it done.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is knowing that the reason my mother had so few platelets was because her bone marrow was not functioning correctly and because she didn't have many platelets any kind of even minor injury was dangerous to her because he body was uble to produce more / enough platelets to stop her from bleeding to death.
-1	I feel i need to do a bit more reseach
1	I used to have to take my grandmother to the doctor. Afterward, I would have to explain what the doctor said to her.
-1	I recently have had to go on drugs due to anxiety. I basically saw that anxiety was rising my blood pressure since I was always worried about stuff. So me and my doctor maged to find a perfect medicine for me.
-1	A family member asked me about a certain ilness and I read a lot about the topic. I felt reallly knowledgeable at the time and was able to explain accurately some of the procedures involved in the process. 
1	I wouldn't say I have a lot of knowledge, rather I try to document what is communicated by medical professiols and research the issues at home. Recently I was told I had a condition and made notes while at the Drs office, then came home and fully researched the issue to better understand it. 
-1	I felt a bump on my shoulder and I knew something was up so I went to the doctor and he told me that I had cancer.
-1	everytime i go to the doctor and have to bring up my food intake, i demonstrate my knowledge of nutrition
1	I had a rash and monitored it for a few days before asking for advice of the doctor. She said it was likely from contact with something disagreeable and said it would clear up on its own.
1	My mother had knee surgery done to both of her knees.  I had to help her and figure out a lot of medical information for her.
1	I accurately diagnosed my psoriasis based on reading about it and then the doctor confirmed it.
1	I took calcium and vitamin d to increase my bone density. Then I had my bone density tested and my doctor recommended I take calcium and vitamin d.
1	I helped keep my mother alive for many years by closely monitoring her many physical problems.  I assisted her in the hospital and at home with medication and other health related issues.
1	I was diagnosed with something that no doctor could figure out. They all thought I had a uriry tract infection and no medicine that they gave me worked. I started doing my own research to try and figure out what I had and it was a matter of getting the doctor's to listen to what I may possibly have. It turns out I filly found a urologist that agreed with me and that I did have intersitial cystitis. 
1	I used to work for an attorney as a legal researcher. We had a lot of medical cases involving supplements, vaccines, and malpractice cases so I learned a lot from that job.
1	I was diagnosed with hypothyroidism when I was 19. My thyroid was depressed from a two-month-long upper respiratory infection I had learned to live with. I used things I had learned through my behavioral magement class to cope with having a phobia of needles and doing regular blood draws. Since my thyroid wasn't damaged I actually went off the medicine within a year because I was exercising heavily (partially to prevent weight gain, partially to increase my energy) and avoiding foods that would further depress my thyroid (which I had to research on my own and my doctor did not give to me) 
1	"I have no professiol knowledge of health of medical issues. I only can go by what I ""feel"" going on with my body and determine if it is serious enough to go to the hospital. I had some growing pains when I was younger that prevented me from breathing, so I had to rush to the emergency room. It ended up only being growing pains but it felt extremely horrible at the time and I thought it was life-threatening."
-1	Both of my parents were in the medical field. So I know how would be as a career. I thought about doing it, but it was just really coplicated. I like studying about it and learning the treatments though.
1	Providing patient care on a psychiatric eating disorder unit. 
1	I had a mole on my arm. I read the warning signs of a dangerous mole. It was cancer and was easily removed.
-1	Before my father passed away, I learned a lot of dialysis, since he was on dialysis for kidney failure, and he also had heart issues, so being close to him and seeing him almost daily and taking him to doctors, etc. I learned a lot.
-1	I have taken a few premed classes before deciding on what I actually wanted to do in life. I also have dealt with family members having multiple medical issues so i have done multiple research. 
1	When I gave birth to both of my children, I wanted to know how my placentas looked. I know that if they were discolored or foul smelling there was a chance that I had an infection or the babies were in distress during delivery.
1	I witnessed a child having an allergic reaction. His lips and tongue were starting to swell and I told his mom he needed to go to the ER immediately.
1	This is an ambiguous and very broad question. A few years ago I knew I met the definition of obesity and worked to lose enough weight to fall into the normal weight range. By doing this I know I have significantly reduced my risks for heart disease, stroke, diabetes, and other health problems.
1	I was able to read the information about my prescription and figure out what the side effects actually meant. This helped me to decide if I should stay on the prescription or not.
-1	I have none.
1	My TSH was very high -- it was 8.  My doctor wanted to immediately place me on a medicine to replace my thyroid.  I wanted to research it, and I learned that too much, not just too little, iodine could increase my TSH.  I had been taking 1/16 t. of kelp to get iodine (since I don't use salt), but it turns out that was too much. I stopped using it, and my TSH returned to &lt;1 within a couple of weeks. No medicine necessary.  Also, I was able to reduce my cholesterol to &lt;160 by diet alone -- by following a whole foods, high carb, no added fat, oil-free vegan diet -- so again, no pills, whereas he wanted to put me on pills immediately.
1	I got a cold and knew that it was communicable, so I stayed away from other people to keep from contracting it to them.  I rested more than usual so my body could fight the cold.
-1	My son was born with craniosynostosis. His diagnosis and surgery made me learn different things about medical issues.
1	I had several miscarriages. I educated myself about possible causes by visiting reputable sites online so that when I saw a specialist about it, I knew what he was talking about right away when he discussed my test results.
1	My experience is that I was raised in an intelligent family with a lot of brothers and sisters.  And I had a large family with daughters and sons.  Dealing with all disease and disaster...and my propensity toward research helps me understand health and medical issues.
-1	My daughter was diagnosed with breast cancer. I went with her to every doctor's appointment and surgery. I feel like I learned a lot about the disease and statistics. 
1	I honestly can't think of one. Sorry.
-1	I guess answering questions the best I can
-1	When my daughter has the flu, I knew the symptoms between it and a normal cold.
1	My aunt has diabetes, so I am familiar with the disease and potential risks/treatments for it. I am also familiar with the symptoms of diabetes, and actively keep an eye out for these signs in my own health.
1	I have a major in biology and have read multiple scientific articles on various medical and health issues. 
1	I had surgery on my elbow a while ago. I was able to follow the directions given to me for recovery. I was also able to do the physical therapy exercises that were given to me at home. I made a full recovery
-1	I started a new birth control method and I understood the instructions on how to start it based on what I read in their instructions.
-1	I have had several MRI on my back. Most of them I have asked for the paper copies and DVD copy. I have asked my surgeon to explain the procedures and findings on my MRI. With these instructions I can now read them and understand them
1	When I had kidney failure, I had lots of tests and doctors visits.  I asked them lots of intelligent questions and they were impressed by my knowledge.
1	I am a volunteer EMT and have been able to apply the knowledge that I learned through my EMT class and other college classes (was a biochemistry undergraduate student) to my volunteer work.
1	When my mom had a lump in her breast. She said that she could move it around. I said that probably meant that it's benign, which it turned out to be when she went in for testing.
1	I was an emt for several years.
1	I went to the doctor to get an IUD. While I was there, my doctor asked me if I knew the possible side affects relating to my period, and I was able to tell her what they were.
-1	when i decided to get fit. i use to be 220lb as  a kid so i taught myself how to workout out, about nutrition and diet and things like that. currently i am trying to help my brother drop weight based on what i learned that helped me
-1	My husband had prostrate cancer and I was his caregiver.  I talked to his doctors, asked questions about his test results and did my own research.
1	dont have experience, i just know how to read
-1	Both of my children got sick enough to be hospitalized with they were about 3 years old. They had contracted a virus and were losing body fluids through throwing up and diarrhea. I recognized the signs of dehydration and got them medical attention in time.
1	I had my second child at home. She landed in the toilet as I began to stand to go to the hospital. It was scary and exciting. 
1	A time in my life when I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when my niece had a severe headache. I knew from her symptoms that she was having a migraine ( I have had migraines since I was fourteen years old). 
1	When I had serious abdomil pains I looked up items in a medical book.  The symptoms described were that of kidney stones.  I waited 12 hours before going to a doctor who sent me for a cat scan.  He too thought it was stones.  It turned out to be correct.  
1	While working in an OB/GYN office. 
1	My father was having heart surgery. The surgeon explained what was happening to me and my mother; my understanding is typically better than hers of medical issues. WHen he left, she asked me to rephrase what he'd said to confirm that she'd understood (and she had). 
1	I was able to understand what the doctor's were telling my family about my mother's colon cancer and pass it along to the rest of my family.  I was able to decipher the prognosis and break the bad news to my sister and her husband.
1	I decided to try to treat some gastrointestil issues by changing my diet completely instead of filling up on steroids that my doctor wanted to prescribe me. I wanted to elimite the problem, instead of temporarily soothe the pains. It tuned out that the diet changed worked and I didn't need the steroids after all. 
1	I had an issue where my doctor told me that I had high cholesterol.  We discussed starting a statin but after discussing the pros and cons, I opted to increase my exercise activity.  We discussed the good and bad levels of cholesterol and I was able to get my cholesterol back within acceptable levels based on my increased level of exercise.
-1	In past I had quite a few relatives and friends whom I've helped with some medical issues' questions.
-1	I work in a medical office and I had to to know of the different procedures that would be going on in our facility.
-1	When my daughter was sick and had an ear affection. I know exactly what it was. She was teething and had went through the same process with my son.
1	I do not have much knowledge of health issues since I have not had anything health related out of the norm. I have had 3 children but other than that I have no knowledge myself as to medical issues or conditions.
-1	I was able to diagnose myself with a herniated disc based on the pain I was experiencing and stories I've heard from others. 
1	The other day my husband was curious about a rash he had on his leg. He works in a lot of water so he had broke out in what looked to be a friction rash or burn. He put neosporin on it which made it worse. I informed him of something that I once read that a lot of people have a negative reaction to that cream and to just keep it clean and dry.
1	I always buy fat free milk and yogurt. In that way I consume less calories and fat.
1	I get frequent UTI's so I am able to tell when I feel one coming on. I am then able to take the necessary precautions to try and catch it early and stop it from getting worse. I keep a variety of remedies readily available and I understand when and how to use each.
1	Going through my lower back surgeries. I was in an auto accident, and it definitely helped having some medical knowledge 
1	A few years ago I was diagnosed with high blood pressure, it runs in my family so my doctor put me on a low dose of it. While I was on the medicine I started to exercise and eat more healthy because I knew that if I did that it would help with my blood pressure and also help lower it. I was able to lower my blood pressure by doing this and eventually come off of the medicine all together.
1	I have ah usband with Crohn's disease, so I often go to the doctor with him. In addition to that, I have regular check ups, or if I get a cold I go. I also sometimes have allergic reactions tthat are really bad, so I go for that.
1	I've had asthma most of my life. I visit my doctor for inhalers, and respiratory health issues in general.
1	Having family members that have worked in the medical field. You hear talk about their experiences of a number of different things.
1	I had knowledge of my health when I felt a lump on my back. I checked the internet and found that it was not harmful. I asked my doctor and he also said that it was not harmful to my health.
1	I have used my knowledge of health to live a healthier lifestyle and to lose weight. So far I have lost 60 lbs. 
1	4 years ago my mom had brain surgery for a tumor. After working in the medical device industry for 12 years I was much more comfortable talking to the doctors and asking questions than my parents were. Doctors are humans and normal folk, I am ok talking and questioning them. I think this is most important, even beyond knowing what to do or how to treat. I knew what questions to ask: follow up plans, treatment pathways, altertive options, long term side effects. And I was able to get enough information to plan. 
1	When dealing with my pregncy I was able to understand all of my test results and any actions that needed to be taken or followed up on. A specific example is when I had to have my fasting glucose level tested. I received my results and determined that I was in the normal range, which was then confirmed by the doctor at my next appointment.
1	A friend of mine reported feeling extremely tired no matter how much she slept while she was on her period. I suggested that he iron might be low during that time.
1	I have been through childbirth twice and had a daughter born with a kidney issue which later resolved.  Therefore, I learned to read and understand medical information.
1	I used to believe I had a health condition so I would extensively look up symptoms online. This made me think I had knowledge of medical issues but really just made me more anxious and upset. 
-1	I was told that I had a thyroid issue. I changed my diet and vitamins and I was able to improve my health. 
1	I have followed a high fiber diet for many years.  A few years ago, I began to experience a lot of bloating.  I consistently adjusted my diet and my use of fiber supplements until I found what was causing the problem.  It took several months to do that, but I was successful in reducing my discomfort.
1	I realized that I was suffering dehydration one day and that I needed water and electrolytes to get my body re-hydrated.
1	I was able to provide CPR to a child that was drowning in a community pool. I was CPR certified while training to become a lifeguard.
1	I know a lot a about medications and what they are taken for. Someone asked me what a statin drug was and I explained it was for cholesterol.
1	That a ketogenic diet has been shown to reduce risks and seizures associated with epilepsy, conversion of glucose to ketosis results in a more stable and less likely chance of seizure.  
1	My daughter had very serious health problems while she was growing all the way from birth to her 20's. It was necessary for me to learn as much about her health care as possible in order for me to take care of her and in order to teach other people to take care of her. It was like a full time job to learn all the things that pertained to her condition but it was necessary and I think I was successful. 
1	A few years ago, I noticed some bumps on my face that were itching. I remembered that my brother had mentioned that he had the same symptoms when he had shingles in the recent past, so I did some research online about it. What I found seemed to match up with what I was experiencing, so I went to my doctor to talk about it, and I mentioned that I thought it might be shingles. He agreed, and he put me on some shingles medication. Within a couple weeks, the symptoms disappeared, and I was able to keep the situation from getting to the later stages, when it would have become very painful and possible permanently scarring.
1	When I was taking medic classes when I was 19, I was visiting my mother and stepfather. She choked on a piece of steak. I did the Heimlich and saved her life. I have used that more to save people's lives than I've pulled people out of burning buildings.
1	I went in for chest pains and difficulty breathing. I thought it might be a chest infection after looking it up on the internet and it turned out I was correct.
1	When my daughter was born she had an infection and was in the NICU for a week, I felt like I was able to keep up with all of her care as well as discuss it fluently with her private pediatrician when she was released. 
-1	None that I can think of
1	My father reached out to me regarding an issue he was having and I had some knowledge of what his symptoms might be caused by. I confirmed this with my wife who confirmed the ailment I guess he had.
1	My father was recently diagnosed with diabetes. In talking to him, I understood things like his A1C level and blood sugars, due to my previously having gestatiol diabetes myself. I also understood the types of food he needs to avoid as well as the types he should be eating.
1	I had a sore shoulder and went to physical therapy, but felt that it was not right to move my arm so much, so I filly asked if I could go to a specialist...it was a physicians assistant surgeon (I think) that I went to.  He told me to rest my shoulder for 30 days.  I did that, and it healed.  I also am convinced that proper diet is the best medicine.  My friend changed his diet and lowered his diabetes numbers to below diabetic readings.
1	My uncle was diagnosed with stage 4 melanoma. I had to quickly read up on the latest studies about immunotherapies and which ones may work for him.
1	I have been asked by several elderly friends to read their medical information to them. So, basically I had to read the information and summarize it in a way that they could understand.  
1	I don't know, I haven't had to read that many things about medicine. Last semester, I had to write a 12+ page paper on the EpiPen and the price hikes and all of that. I know that it only costs a few dollars to create the pen with the epinephrine inside, but they sell for hundreds of dollars now. I don't know, I'm a little distrustful about the pharmaceutical industry, but I don't know how distrustful I am about doctors.
1	I have a family history of heart disease.  My father had multiple heart attacks throughout his life so I was aware of how cholesterol levels affected him.
1	"At work a girl accidentally got stabbed by a small knife between her fingers. A small vein was punctured causing blood to ""squirt"" from the wound with her heart beat. Everyone panicked except myself. I went to the first aid kit and grabbed a cold compress. I put it over the wound and it closed by itself after about 2 minutes. No one else knew that making the vein cold would cause it to constrict and stop the blood flow."
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health is when I was sitting down with my parents and explaining to them the importance of changing their diet, and working towards living a healthier life. I had done a lot of research prior, and was able to explain to them the benefits of eating cleaner, and the benefits that it had on their bodies by cutting out junk food, and not going out to eat as much. I want them to live as long as possible and not be in a lot of pain when they're older. When I was talking everything through with them I felt sort of like an expert on the topic.
1	When I was a teeger I once kept a woman alive using CPR long enough for the ambulance to arrive.
1	My mother was recently diagnosed with diabetes. I was able to plan her meals and lay out a diet plan for her that caused her numbers to fall within an acceptable range within  6 months.
1	I have done research into the science of nutrition so I am knowledgeable about how to read nutrition facts. As far as other areas I don't ahve a lot of knowledge other than what my doctor has told me about me specifically. Generally my numbers are in acceptable ranges so I don't put a lot of thought into it.
1	I had twisted my ankle in a basketball game. I went home, wrapped my ankle with ice, and kept it elevated. I made a doctor's appointment for the next day.
1	An experience I had was when my cousin started slurring speech and had trouble walking and had lost feeling in his arms. I realized he may be having a stroke from the symptoms. 
1	I had cancer as a young man.  As soon as I had symptoms I took myself in to be seen.  I was an active participant in my diagnosis and treatment and eventual recovery.
1	Spending 4 years trying to get a diagnosis of a rare disease meant that I learned a lot about how certain organ systems work, what the possible causes of a disorder are, and how a diagnosis is made.
-1	I am inexperienced in medical knowledge and do not have medical background in training
1	I had someone ask me about celiac disease. I know a lot about it because I have it myself. I told them how to eat and what to look out for.
-1	I eat healthy and I exercise regularly, because I understand that is best for my overall health.  
1	One time I had a friend that felt suddenly sick.  Given his symptoms it was likely food poisoning and told him he should rest and drink some fluids.
1	I have been handling all the paperwork and correspondence for my husband who is disabled for years. He has had as many as four doctors at once and had me do all his business with doctors.
1	I found a lump in my testicle and went to a doctor.  He had it scanned and while we waited for results I did some research.  I was able to discuss my diagnosis with my doctor and understand what he was telling me and also offer counter theories as to what it might be or the cause.  In the end we were able to sort it out and I was satisfied that I understood where it was going instead of being scared and relying on everything he told me.
1	My legs were swelling for what seemed like no reason. I'm overweight. I thought about what I'd been eating g in the past several days, and I came to the conclusion that I had been eating way too much salt. So I switched to low sodium foods and drank a lot of water, and this greatly helped the problem. 
-1	I have given birth to two children. My youngest has had a host of health issues and we've seen several different specialists and had different therapies. My mom was an LPN and would talk about different things when we had questions. I also will research when there is something that is concerning or an issue I have. 
1	My mother was bed bound for over 6 years due to many illnesses. While my father was usually in charge of helping keep track of her medication, illnesses, and allergies, I had to keep them straight too. There were a few times over those years that I kept a Doctor straight on what all was going on with her medication.
1	My parents and grandparents went through very serious medical events in their lives while I was around that exposed me to much of the medical world and its workings. Ive seen many procedures and medical suggestions to maintain life. Ive done much reading and research on many of their medical problems.
1	my girlfriend needed stitches for a cut on her hand this weekend. I guessed she needed 4 and they gave her 5, but I still feel the 5th stitch was unneeded. 
1	When my jaw was broken and we had to make decisions about the surgery
-1	Some of them are confusing and take math skills
1	When I was diagnosed with osteoporosis, I already knew a lot about the disease and available treatments. My mother has osteoporosis too and I had read a lot about it already. 
-1	I try not to be knowledgable with others due to me not being it myself without needing reference
1	I used to be a certified nursing assistant about twenty years ago.
1	I had abnormal results on a thyroid test during pregncy.  Because I've been pregnt before and realized that there are issues in pregncy that can cause these results I didn't worry and chose to wait until after delivery to retest. The results were within a normal range. 
1	I had a leg rash and so I went to the nurse who told me it was a fungal infection and recommended some treatment. I was skeptical because when I did some research, it didn't seem to match up with my symptoms. Then, when the rash didn't respond to the topical cream, I went and got a second opinion and was able to actually treat my symptoms.
1	
-1	I know some medical jargon so I can sometimes tell what the doctor is saying and they don't know it.
1	I explained how a surgery was performed to my friend.
1	I am often a resource for friends and family members regarding health issues in their lives.  The most recent example would be helping a friend with lung issues learn how to do breathing exercises and teaching him how and when to do the exercises. 
1	I didn't really have first hand experiences, but I suppose I can say that I am currently in the process of losing weight, and I have tried to count my calorie intake. So reading the calorie and nutritiol labels and counting my intake has given me some experiences.
1	My aunt was diagnosed with Crohn's disease which affects the lining of the digestive tract. Since I have an interest in health, I am familiar with this disease. I was able to help her understand some of the concepts of new diets that the doctor recommended to her. After her diagnosis I continued to help her prepare meals that would be easier for her to digest. 
-1	Military, Hospital dealings with myself and family, my significant other is a RN at a major hospital. 
-1	
-1	My heart rate was racing and I was rapidly dropping weight and always hungry. In about 3 weeks I had close to 15 pounds. I felt very anxious like I was always on edge and I had hives. I made an appointment with my doctor and he diagnosed Grave's Disease. Since my diagnosis, I have followed my doctor's instruction for medication to the letter and was stabilized within months after treatment. I adjusted my diet and began exercising more to mage the shifts in my hormones.
1	Last fall, I had a pain in my side that I was trying to ignore. One night, I woke up in severe pain and knew I needed medical attention right away. I was not all that worried, though, because I assumed it was my gall bladder. I was right, and it was removed about 2 weeks later. Had I not had the knowledge of how gall bladders work and what was likely causing the pain, I may have been much more worried and anxious than I was.
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with Alzheimers. I started to notice things like she accused my sister of stealing the towels. We of course left at this and thought she is just old and could not remember. I noticed she did not sleep at night, but more in the day. I started putting all of these things together and started researching it. I found out she had sundowners and we than got her tested for dementia which she did have.
1	I have studied biological sciences in undergraduate. Many of my courses were involved with nursing applications and other medical knowledge. I have studied statistics for 3 years.
1	I am a little overweight. My doctor offered to write me a script for appetite suppressant. I already knew about the drug, but declined the script because the side effects were not what I would want to potentially experience in order to just drop a few pounds. 
1	As I stated before, I work in clinical research...diabetes, obesity, cardiology, statistics, etc...
1	My father was very sick for awhile, had brain cancer, a couple heart attacks, diabetic, copd.  I went to a lot of his doctor appointments, and spend a lot of time with him in the hospital, rehab, and nursing home. 
1	I use my head and try to understand each issue as well as I can.  I always ask questions when I can.
1	I've already addressed this.  The most profound, persol, experience was in 1987 when I contracted Lyme Disease.  Very few medical professiols were familiar with the virus and it took almost a year to be diagnosed.  
-1	I once had a shoddy lymph node pop up. I had it checked, and was worried it might be lymphoma, but since I didn't exhibit any other symptoms, I was about 80 percent sure it was nothing more than a node that got out of place and never went back down. I ended up being correct. 
1	I had a friend that was stressing out because she wasn't sure if she had some form of ovarian cancer. I was able to help her better determine that she might have ovarian cysts instead, and this was confirmed by a doctor's visit.
1	My father had prostate cancer and I had a case of prostatitis around the age of 40. I requested a PSA test at age 42. My doctor said that this was young but because of my family history and my own trouble with my prostate, he said that the PSA test was acceptable in my case. I understood about the high rate of false positives in this case, so I knew that if I had a high PSA it didn't necessarily mean I had cancer. 
1	I went to the doctor thinking I had bronchitis due to my symptoms and the length of time I had had the illness. The doctor confirmed that was what I had and prescribed me medicine.
1	most of my career  was spent in hospitals and the back of ambulances i have 2 years 
-1	My dad recently broke his ankle. He didn't think it was broken but I could tell it was pretty bad and I had to use my knowledge to convince him to go to the ER while also providing various care in the meantime for the swelling, using RICE, etc
1	I have successfully been able to help friends having bad chemical reactions from the synergy of 2 chemicals. After identifying this we could then help them balance back out and get to a normal state. I was lucky to have simple education on the synergy of different things.
-1	My significant other had some kind of illness and I figured it was some kind of cold based on his symptoms and when he went to the doctor it had turned out that I was right.
-1	My mother had breast cancer and got to a point where she couldn't care for herself.  I had to take care of her meds and appointment etc.  I think I gained valuable knowledge while caring for my ailing mother.
1	I don't know.  I raised five boys, so there were always childhood illnesses that came up.  I think I was pretty good at determining what was minor (like a cold) and something that needed medical intervention (like a broken bone or the croup).
1	When I started getting the cold. I dressed warm and stayed under bed covers the rest of the day. Felt perfectly normal the next day.
1	When I was a teeger I was on a ski trip.  I broke my thumb going over a large jump.  I decided not to leave the ski trip because I felt that nothing would repair the thumb and I would miss 3 days of skiing.  When I filly got home, I went to the doctor.  He told me there was nothing he could do other than put a cast around my arm to prevent me from moving my wrist and upsetting the fracture.  I'm not sure if this is what you're talking about but there you go.
1	I constantly look stuff up. And as a diabetic i have to stay up on all the govt misinformation about my disease. 
1	My mother was having dizzy spells after she moved to a house at high altitude in Colorado. I told her that her blood pressure medication might need to be adjusted due to the altitude change. 
1	In my daily life I have to monitor my blood sugar. I have also done extensive persol research on the effects of body mass and weight on joints do to arthritis. 
-1	i dont have any experience or knowledge with medical issues. thats why i thing its important to have trust in your doctor.
1	I have high blood pressure. i take beta block and a high blood pressure pill to lower my heart rate and pressure so that its 130/70. I also was sudding to be a med student but quit and went to the army 
1	I don't have tons of health experience, but I do have PCOS so I have researched diet and nutrition to help mage weight over the years with varying levels of success. I've used that as a reason to continue to exercise when I don't want to, and I became a vegetarian to have a healthy approach to eating. It helps keep me conscious of what I am eating. 
1	My sister has type 1 diabetes. One day she was feeling sick and only thought it was the flu. I believed it was a problem with here diabetes so I went over her house to find her in bed and almost unresponsive. I rushed her to the emergency room and we found out it was a symptom of her diabetes.
1	I went to a doctor when I found a growth on my arm. It was something I had never seen before so I got it biopsied 
1	When my son was small, he accidentally fell and bumped his head on a chair in my living room. It looked terrible, but I knew the risks and signs of a concussion. Because of this, I was able to determine that we did not need to take him to the hospital at that time, and instead kept a very close eye on him for a while. 
1	I am allergic to sulfa drugs. I am able to tell my doctor and people treating me about this each time I go, so I don't get sick.
1	I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues whenever I spoke to family or friends about my daughter's condition as well as when she was initially transferred from Children's Hospital to the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota. We pretty much had repeat everything we learned from doctors at Children's to those at the Mayo.
1	Due to a school project I had done on Strep Throat, I knew immediately that I had it, due to the telltale spots on the tongue. I ended up getting strep throat every year for five or six years straight, so I became very good at determining when I was about to have strep throat again.
1	I went to school to obtain my Emergency Medical Technician certification. While, I am not medically trained in the hospital setting as doctors are, I learned so much that helps me in my every day life and being a parent. 
1	I've been sick with the flu a few times in my life and I knew what to do without the need to visit a doctor. I knew to get plenty of rest and drink fluids and watch my fever temperature. I was also aware of the symptoms to watch for in case it developed into something more serious.
1	I had severe pain in my side of my abdomen. I was concerned it was apendicitis but i was incorrect.
1	I really can't think of an example.
1	Growing up with a mother that was in and out of hospitals for lupus. and spending time with her at NIH when I was child. As well as being the main care giver for my father as he dealt with cancer. 
1	i started working with a new employee a couple of months ago. i noticed she always had a jacket on even though she was overweight and we kept the place rather warm. one day i noticed her hands were a purple color starting at the tips of her fingers. i asked her if she had a heart condition which she told me she did. i then asked her if she had been diagnosed with reyuds disease. she had never heard of it before. she eventually told me she went to the doctor and asked and he ended up diagnosing her with it.
1	"I have had many health issues so I stay on top of my illnesses and try to find ways to mitigate my risk, as well as looking for supplements and behaviors that can help me stay healthy. I had a high blood pressure last time I saw my doctor. We both were very concerned. However, over a month of eating right and working to decrease those numbers I was able to get back into ""good"" range. "
1	My mother was having slurred speech and muscle weakness. I recognized the signs of a stroke and called an ambulance. It turned out she was in fact having a stroke.
1	After having two healthy pregncies, I had two miscarriages, 6 months apart. At the time I was also having symptoms of mild hypothyroidism. My OBG didn't want to treat me for it b/c she said that it wouldn't cause miscarriage. I demanded treatment and to humor me she gave me a very small dosage of thyroid pill. I then miscarried shortly afterward. I talked to my regular dr. and she agreed to test me....turns out I had a thryoid automimmune issue that most likely caused my miscarriage. To this day, I still despise my obg for not listening to me.
-1	
1	When dealing with my infertility I sought out information in books, by talking to friends, and reading on the internet. I made it my goal to know all I could about the way my reproductive system works and I have been able to share that knowledge with others and it has helped me feel like I am helping others. 
1	I had a gestatiol diabetes , which changed my outlook towards health and lifestyle.I started to learn more and more about healthy living.
1	I took care of everything when my father had a kidney transplant. This included signing up on various state donor lists, taking several semirs about dealing with someone who gets a transplant and of course speaking with the doctors and surgeons at the hospital pre transplant and post transplant.
-1	When I had to go to the sleep specialist and was able to describe my issues in great detail.
1	Many of my friends have had kids in the last few years. My stepdad was an OBGYN so i grew up being very familiar with childbirth and possible complications. I also did a ton of research on pre and post tal health and breastfeeding when I was pregnt. I was able to help a lot of my friends ease pregncy symptoms (like usea, muscle spasms or swelling) and also helped a few friends get through rare breast feeding issues that many doctors are unfamiliar with (like high lipase milk or reyulds syndrome)
1	I had a pretty serious nosebleed. I knew to apply an ice pack to the bridge of my nose to cause blood clotting.
1	I have a lot of experiences when I count calories to determine what to eat. I try to eat healthy and not eat too many calories
-1	I discovered an ulcer in my stomach. AS a former nurse, I knew that the symptoms were a burning and stubbing pain in my lower abdomen as well as fatigue, low appetite and stress. My diagnosis was confirmed by a gastroenterology doctor.
1	College courses, sick relatives, persol health issues
1	I had a peComa tumor growing on my kidney. It was large, they removed it, but I had to see an oncologist to talk about regrowth. I was able to discuss the growth pattern and mitotic cycle of the cells
-1	I have been attending therapy for several years which has given me knowledge of many mental health issues and the inner-workings of the mind. This has also taught me how to use coping skills more effectively.
1	When I hurt my back, I told the doctor which disks felt like they were hurting. An MRI proved I was correct.
1	SEEING MY PARENTS DIE FROM THEIR DISEASES MADE ME SEE THINGS FROM A DIFFERENT POINT OF VIEW.  I SAW THINGS IN A MEDICAL WORLD THAT MADE NO SENSE AND HAD NO CURE.  
1	Recently I was feeling heart palpitations out of nowhere. I had never felt them before in my life and I got concerned about it. In the end, after doing some research, I concluded that I needed to shed a couple of pounds and quit drinking caffeine. Once I did this the heart palpitations stopped.
1	I don't know how to answer that question because I have always relied on the doctor to explain medical issues with me.  I don't know enough about them to make my own decisions.
1	Just being around family with health issues I have heard from doctors and seen medical charts.
1	I was with my grandfather when he was in the hospital and the nurses and doctors were talking to him about his condition, causes, and treatments. I understood what was being said and help articulate it better to my grandfather on parts he had not understood.
-1	My youngest son was born with panhypopituitary
1	I had hypercalcemia. They removed one of my parathryoid glands. I had cervical dysplasia and a cone biopsy. My mom had thyroid cancer. I am anemic. I have high blood pressure. My mom had a brain aneurysm they coiled. My twin sister had a ruptured appendix, a bowel obstruction and a fibroid removed. Lots of family and friends with illnesses and surgeries.
1	when I was told I had high cholesterol, I already knew what kinds of foods to include and exclude from my diet to lower my cholesterol. I changed my diet and there was a big difference.
-1	I am not really good with medi, I know what I need to take for pain and which ones do the best job, there are a lot of drugs that can do a lot of different things ,like my back I take proxen it works like a anit flamtory 
1	I was diagnosed with gestatiol diabetes.  I needed to follow a strict diet and calculate my carbs, blood sugar, and do tests and write everything down.  This was monitored quite frequently both by myself and by doctors.
1	A friend of mine had to take medication, but did not understand what it was for. His doctor did not do a good job informing him. I used his illness and medication me as research points, and was able to learn about and then inform my friend of the details of his illness and his medication.
1	I really can't think of anything except for interacting with others when they come to me with questions about their health. I guess, talking to my dentist about my teeth issues shows I can demonstrate that. I know the vocabulary for all areas of the mouth and details about procedures, tools dentist use, etc... So, talking to my dentist. 
1	When my grandfather was being given metformin by his previous doctor and I questioned him on when he had done a glucose test to determine that he needed it.
1	My father had a heart attack and needed bypass surgery. When he came home from the hospital he lost a lot of strength and had to change some of his routines. He also had more frequent doctor visits afterwards. Being exposed to his condition and his rehab gave me some direct experience with heart problems and their effects and how to better prevent such incidents.
-1	When I knew that I had something wrong with my knee and the xrays and imaging didn't show anything. It wasn't until I went to a bone doctor that he xrayed me standing up and saw that the cartledge was missing from my left knee. The origil doctors said I didn't have anything wrong. It cost a lot of money and time to find out the truth.  
1	I cut my finger open and applied pressure until the bleeding stopped. Later went to the emergency room for stitches.
1	When I broke my shoulder. I instantly knew I had dislocated it by how it felt and looked and how little I could do 
-1	I had to learn about pilonitus cysts. I had reoccuring cysts for the past ten years. According to doctors there is nothing that can be done but to remove the cysts, surgically to avoid infection or just let the cysts be. But, upon doing my own research, I have found that cysts are created by the rubbing or irritation of hair and sweat glands. So, I can fix the problem by either removing my sweat glands or permanently removing my hair.
1	
-1	My daughter was hospitalizeed for strep throat. I know alot about this and have had it myself so i was better able to help her. i also knew what medicine to ask for.
1	I had to explain to someone at work that the nutrition label does not describe the totality of the container, but a serving of the food within that container. She did not understand that the nutrition label describes the serving size and not the container size.
1	I cut my finger with a knife and judged that I didn't need stiches. I used butterfly bandages to close up the wound. It worked fine.
1	Whenever I hear about a relative with a medical condition.  Also, I would take a regular atomy IQ test on my phone, however I have since forgotten most of the information.
1	When someone that I knew exhibited symptoms of something, I knew what it was. I knew this because I had experienced the same thing in the past. I was able to help them and let them know what to expect.
1	It was after I had had a stent put in for a heart attack.  About a month after i was released from the hospital, I felt very bad and extremely lethargic. My blood pressure was very low.  I felt that one of my medicines was making me feel that way and should be adjusted.  I went to my cardiologist and told him.  he took me off of one of the medicines and I quickly recovered to feeling like my old self.
1	Last time I went to the doctor, he told me that my cholesterol level was still very high, but since I was already taking the max dose of the medicine he prescribed, he could not raise it higher.  I knew this already because the medicine also has an effect on my liver and if I take too much of it, it could damage my liver.
1	I was able to understand potential side effects of taking a certain drug and recognize relevant side effects. I was also able to test my blood pressure and know if it falls into a safe range. 
1	When I had to have a test done to check for aortic aneurysms. I understood what the test was and how it would be able to tell me if I had one or not.
1	Over the years I have learned how to take care of my chronic conditions, because of that I have been a lot less sick or know how to treat myself if it occurs.
1	I was given a flu shot which reduced my odds of getting the flu by an order of one. That meant i was 10 times a likely to NOT get the flu as if i had not got the shot.
-1	I read them all and to see what the best answer is. I figured it out in my head.
-1	I have 2 kids both with asthma. I learned everything I could about asthma so I could better care for them.
1	I did fairly well in biology classes, and have remained curious about science in my post school life. I am no scientist, but I feel comfortable with scientific concepts, so medical and health information pose no specific barrier to me, especially if I am allowed to research and ask questions.
-1	I thought I had an issue with my eyes and my doctor thought it was pink eye. I researched more and determined I had bletharitis.
-1	I have been very ill twice before in my life and thought I would die, I have seen many doctors in my life as well bot my parents who are no longer with me suffered terribly and I was with them, i.e. trips to the hospitals and conversations with doctors
-1	I had to make a decision whether to have surgery for precancerous cells.  I researched the situation and decided the surgery was the best way to go.
-1	I took care of my Grandmother for a few years, and accompanied her to doctor's appointments. I helped explain her medical information to her. 
1	My husband was feeling sick with a sore throat, cough and a fever.  I told him that he probably came down with the flu despite the fact that he had taken the flu shot.  He went to the doctor and was diagnosed with the flu.
1	I worked in a doctor's office and currently in medical research. 
1	For breakfast I ate a ba and oatmeal with dried cherries, raisins, apple chunks, cinmon, sunflower seeds, and peanut butter. For lunch I ate veggie stir fry with quinoa. For dinner I had white rice and black beans with diced tomato, cilantro, avocado, and cheese (which isn't the healthiest choice but damn if it doesn't taste good).
1	I figured out that a medication I was taking had really bad side effects and that I no longer needed it.  I'd been free of the symptoms it was treating for 17 or 18 years and the side effects included depression and blood thinning and such.  I have been off it for 2 years now and have had no ill effects.
1	I worked as a certified nursing assistant through college. I worked in the newborn unit, and learned some medical knowledge through experience. 
1	Same answer as the first answers, my mother's cancer. I keep meticulous notes, read medical jourls, question our health team very closely, and follow message boards a bit obsessively. I quit my job to deal with this. I live it.
1	Passing the CPR test in health class when I was younger took a basic knowledge of health and the techniques that were taught. 
1	I once was on the scene of a car crash in the middle of the night. It was on a small road and there was no one there except the people in the crashed car and my husband and I. The woman in the crashed car was bleeding profusely from what seemed to be a deep wound and I tried to slow the flow of blood by applying pressure on the wound and calming her while we were waiting for emergency responders. 
1	I was taking medicine for strep throat that it turns out I was allergic to. So I took some bedryl to treat the side effects and went to the doctor's as I soon as I could. I'd been through enough medical scares with my children to know what to do in a situation like that.
1	When I first started college I was a nursing student
1	I have low blood pressure so I know when it is low or getting lower because of the warning signs that my body gives me of becoming dizzy, have the shakes or black out completely. I know that to heed the warning signs and take medicine when this occurs so I don't completely black out.
1	I normally look up health information on website. There are a lot of credible source of medical information in print or on line. 
1	I am a very active person who watches their diet, I have never had a major health issue or anything beyond a cold or flu. 
1	"Well if 85% of positive mammograms are false positives, then they aren't really good are they???? I'm proving the high fruit raw lifestyle works. Teeth have stopped decaying out of my head. Dentist would tell me to not do one of the those ""crazy"" grape diets. Yet that style of eating is the ONLY that reverses extreme acidosis in people. The amount of idiocy and low consciousness medical professiols have about human nutrition and health is ridiculous. I suppose it doesn't help that our food system is poisened with pesticides and GMO, certainly makes it harder for those who TRY, to even get well."
1	
-1	after being told I have diabetes and learning from both my doctor and reading website, I was better able to understand and mage my diabetes. My diabetes is now what my doctor calls controlled diabetes. 
-1	When I had allergies and I had to look up online what can help treat it and went to the store and got an over the counter product that can help.
1	I'm not sure how to answer this. Unless you mean that I've always been able to understand my own health issues and discuss treatments and issues with the doctors without any assistance. 
-1	My grandfather has diabetes, and there were time I had to take care of him and make him meals and give him insulin shots. I would have to follow strict guidelines for his care. I had to do research and learn a lot.
-1	My daughter had strep throat. She had all the symptoms including blisters on her tonsils. I was able to call the dr and make an appointment and inform them what I thought and when I got there the first thing they did was swab her throat. So it was time saving too.
1	I lost my daughter when I was 20. She passed away from SIDS. My mother has a lot of heart and vascular problems as well.
-1	I lived overseas for awhile in the jungle.  I got a fungal infection.  After ascertaining what had happened through a medical reference textbook I purchased antifungal medication from a pharmacy and treated myself successfully. 
-1	There was this one time I was able to explain my medical condition to my doctor and he said I knew more than he did. 
1	I once had to perform CPR on a stranger because everyone else was panicking. I bought her time until the ambulance came.
-1	Five years ago I had a hearth atact tahs when I stared taking care of my health. I started to eat right excriseing daily no salt , trying not to stress at all.
1	My son had a rash that we thought was an allergic reaction. When Bedryl didn't work, we went to the doctor. He thought it was erythema Multiforme. Through my own internet research, the rash was more likely urticaria Multiforme. We told him later and he agreed.
-1	Our daughter has suffered from anxiety issues. I've now read so much about anxiety that I feel very very knowledgeable about it, and I've helped her make tremendous progress forward in overcoming or at least maging anxiety. 
-1	Both of my parents have diabetus and i have to take care of them and take hem to the doc.
-1	I was having back pain and knew that I would need to go to the doctors and that there was probably something wrong with my back that would not be curable passed off of research that I did online and that I would probably need to do ohysical therapy and exercise reguarly and when I went to the doctors it turned out I was right and ended up having to do physical therapy and was given a set of exercises to do everyday.
1	My son seemed to have an issue with ear infections and delayed speech when he was younger.  I was able to recognize the symptoms he was having and get an appointment with a doctor.  My wife and I made the decision to have tubes put into his ears, and it corrected the problem.  He now does not have ear infections and is speaking normally.
-1	When I had a baby I read books on  the delivery procedure. I learned all of the steps to the delivery.
1	I went to the doctors office with a hairline fracture in my left fibula and a rolled ankle. After taking the X-rays I asked him for a soft splint and crutches as I knew this was the normal procedure for my injury.
-1	I like to read articles and research various health issues so that I know what is going on. When I had a back issue I learned as much as possible to get it fixed as best as possible.
-1	My knowledge of health/medical issues is pretty limited as I'm not a doctor so I really don't know what you're requesting.    I know basic, home remedy type things for basic illnesses but that's about it.
1	I went through secondary infertility. I had to learn lots of statistics regarding my chances of conceiving again, as well as the different methods and treatments I should try and their corresponding levels of success.
-1	I had a mammogram years ago. It showed a possible cyst or lump in the breast. The cost of the 2nd scan was $650, which was out of pocket. Turned out that I did not have cancerous cysts, but it cost me quite a bit for proof.
1	I was very flushed and was having a reaction to something I ate. I realized that there were nitrates in my meat that were causing the reaction. I wasn't panicked because I knew the cause and to avoid them in the future.
-1	My mother was having signs of a stroke, and I recognized the signs and quickly called the ambulance so she could be taken to the hospital. I noticed weakness in her arm, face, and slurred speech.
1	Having my spouse diagnosed with diabetes and understanding that that was an increase in sugar in the blood.  Knowing that the pancreas is either not producing enough insulin, not recognizing the insulin produced or not producing any insulin.  Further understanding the need to monitor the diet for total carbs that are ingested during a meal/day to keep blood sugars stable and within the range the doctor set for him.  Also knowing that he is at increased risk for eye problems (needing yearly eye exam), wound healing problems (need to have frequent foot inspections for non healing sores), rel and cardiac issues.
1	I had my grandmother go in to check for cancer as she was showing symptoms. Turns out she did actually have it. 
1	I have Fibromyalgia. I diagnosed myself by putting together all of my symptoms, speaking to a relative that has it, researching it on the internet, and speaking with my doctor.
-1	"I got my finger caught in a garage door.  When I looked at the finger, I saw yellow tissue sticking out.  I immediately realized this required suturing - it wasn't going to be a ""band aid"" fix."
1	I helped my parents deal with their doctors and medical issues
1	I had to make the decision to not resuscitate my mother after her illness. She had kidney failure and it had affected her mental state. She came out of it, but I knew there would be a continuous decline because of the damage done and the chances of a conscious life were little to none.
-1	Had 3 surgeries and I am a nurse.
1	One example is when I learned I had thyroid problems.  My mother has Hashimoto's disease which I learned is genetic.  I was starting to experience a lot of odd symptoms like dry brittle hair, constipation, dry skin and being cold all the time.  I did some research on the internet and learned that I may have thyroid problems and recalled that my mother had the same problems.  So I went to the doctor and had it checked out and sure enough I had the same disease.  
1	I have experience in phlebotomy and have taken a class to be a phlebotomist part-time. I have used my knowledge of atomy to be able to help patients with their own medical issues.
1	A few years ago I had severe pain in my upper stomach area to the left and figured it was my gallbladder. I went to the emergency room and it was indeed my gallbladder. 
-1	During my previous physical checkup, I came prepared with many questions, after looking up the info online. When I asked my doctor about these questions, he said I was correct.
1	I went to the doctor with an issue that I had been having.  Because of research I had done on my own time I was able to tell the doctor what I thought was going on.  This lined up with further tests the doctor did and he was able to give me a diagnosis and treatment because of the information provided.
1	My grandfather passed away from cancer years ago. I discussed cancer and the effects of it on the human body with my parents. To this day I try to talk to them about the causes and origins of cancer with them.
1	I have dealt with depression for a lot of my life and it wasn't taken seriously by my family doctor in my teege years.  As a result, I did a lot of research on my own and did what I could to cope.
-1	when I fell off my bike. I knew to apply alcohol and hydrogen peroxide.
1	I was having severe lung pain, saw 3 different doctors who just brushed it off as nothing. I knew it was a real problem so I saw a 4th dr who I demanded to do further testing. That dr filly found the problem after I had to practically beg for further testing.
-1	I had severe migraines years ago.  I noticed that certain foods would trigger them  more so than others. I found that by not eating certain foods, I could reduce them and not have to take daily medication.
1	That is really hard.  I have torn the ligaments in my ankle several times throughout my life.  So after it happening a time or two, every subsequent time I know right away when it happened, I could just tell the way it felt and I could differentiate between that and just a sprain. I have taken first aid training a couple of times.  
1	I have studied different foods and vitamins that are beneficial for my body. At one time I had high cholesterol. I began taking a prescription for my condition but I decided I did not like the long term side effects. So I decided to take my cholesterol down the tural way. I learned a lot along the way.
-1	A few years ago a friend of mine had a really bad boil. I had experience with draining and getting rid of boils. So I showed him how to drain it and it went away.
1	I honestly cannot think of an experience where I've had the opportunity to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues, outside of explaining tests or procedures that I have had.
1	I would say every time I get a cold or the flu(rare) that I demonstrate my knowledge of health issues. I actually try to avoid taking any medicines unless its necessary. I think the foods we eat play an important role in our health. So when I do get sick I know that my body needs lots of rest and fluids. I'll take some time off when this happens and I'll get lots of bed rest. I have a juicer and a Vitamix and I'll make lots of fruit and veggie juices to beat the cold.
1	I had a pretty high fever and I knew to go to the doctor so I was able to get treated for strep throat instead of letting it turn into to something else. 
1	I was talking with my parents about issues of diet and nutrition. We were talking about how the medical community has recommended low-fat, high carbohydrate diets for patients with heart problems or at risk for heart attacks for the past 45 years or so, but the evidence that this diet has been effective for reducing heart problems (or for losing weight, for that matter) is poor. They agreed with me, and we further discussed how cutting out sugar and reducing your carbohydrate intake while increasing dietary fat is likely to be the most healthy diet.
1	I am triage/first aid certified, and on one occasion I was able to help someone who was had been in a car accident.  They were in shock and bleeding and had broken their leg.  I was able to help the person out by helping them get out of shock and then by helping them out of their vehicle to safety and making sure there was nothing at else seriously wrong with them until proper medical attention arrived.
1	I was having severe headaches,  not migraine but pretty intense. I looked up probable causes so I could go to the doctor armed with proper questions and description. It was sinusitis and was cleared up pretty quick. 
1	This is a tough one.  I have a son and there are times when I have to figure out what is bothering him and how to provide him with relief.  This is one area where my previous experiences and knowledge help me.
1	i had gestatiol diabetes, I had to monitor my blood sugars and eat to keep those levels down, to ensure that my child and I stayed healthy. Both were born without any side effects from the diabetes because I kept myself under control.
1	I had a burning sensation in my esophagus that lasted for days.  I called my (then) doctor.  He prescribed me something over the phone without seeing me and said it would be ready at the drug store. When I went to the drug store, there was nothing there.  I trusted my instincts, did the research on the medicine he was about to prescribe (which I would have had to take consistently for GERD).  I looked up tural altertives to this problem.  I had arugula salads, and 100% pure aloe vera juice, and the problem was gone in a day, forever. Things like this is why I don't trust doctors entirely.
1	Nothing in particular, just life experience.
1	Understanding that high TG was due to my intake of sugar, decreasing my intake of sugar by avoiding soft drinks and switching to black coffee, resulting in a 60% drop in my TG and a lowering of my blood pressure.
1	When I gave birth to my second child, I felt I had a much better understanding of newborns and what sort of conditions might crop up. When the doctor told me he had high bilirubin numbers and was slightly jaundiced, I didn't get upset like I did with my first son, because I knew that this was a common occurrence that rarely turned out to be serious. I was able to understand what the doctor was telling me and able to enjoy my son's first few days instead of stressing out.
1	I have basic understanding of medical knowledge of simple diagnoses. Plus I can use my common sense to calculate the rest.
1	One time a coworker had a stroke at work.  She couldn't speak, but I had her squeeze my hands and one hand was barely functioning, so I knew she was having a stroke.  Somebody called 911 and I stayed with her.
1	I read news on WebMD website . It is a great source of information
-1	I work in the medical field and deal with patients on a daily basis.  I demonstrate the use of health and medical knowledge everyday.
1	I've suffered several sports injuries and have been able to recover from them quickly by knowing when to rest, and how to best treat the injury.
1	I had an issue with TMJ for a while, and this forced me to do my own research because it can be a controversial subject.  I learned everything about the topic, and was able to find a good doctor.  The doctor even mentioned how knowledgeable I was on the subject.
1	I was trained how to heal wounds on a battlefield. I helped take care of injured passengers when a bus got knocked down on the highway. I bandaged many severe injuries using a first aid kit from the bus..
1	A friend had been given antibiotic eye drops for her son's pink eye. She told me that in the past they had worked well, but this time they were not working as quickly. I asked if her son had recently had a cold, and she said yes. I told her that some pink eye is viral, in which case the eye drops will not help.
1	In cross country I felt tired and my legs were heavy. I knew something was wrong. I went to the doctor and I had iron anemia.
1	I had 2 heart attacks so I learned a lot about cholesterol. I did the diet thing and exercise and it made no difference at all in my numbers. So I take meds. They work. So I learned about hereditary stuff. No much you can do but take your meds.
1	I was hearing a lot of complaints from my brother about how his stomach was bothering him. I convinced him that he should go to a doctor and have it checked out even though he couldn't afford the cost of treatment. He found out that he has a stomach ulcer and now he is doing much better from eating carefully.
-1	looking up things on webmd
1	My daughter was in the NICU when she was born. After a couple days, I was able to completely understand her condition and explain it to others that were not familiar. 
1	I can hear my knee popping and thought I had a tear in my meniscus, when I went to the Doctor I did.
1	When I took care of a termilly ill family member, I was able to make sure that medications were correct from pharmacy and was able to question doctors and/or any orders given.
1	I started to pay more attention to the nutrition facts once I knew about my family's risk of high blood pressure.
-1	My mom was a two time cancer patient and I was her caretaker
-1	I worked in a spa sometime in my life and had the ability to take blood pressure.  The mager asked me if I would take his as he wasn't feeling well.  I took it for him and it was high.  We immediately sent him to his doctor.
1	While I have my own health issues, my husband has even more of them. And since he's a bit less capable of taking care of everything himself, I am the one who takes care of coorditing a lot of his healthcare. This means compiling information for new doctors, doing paperwork, and giving information. This experience has given me the insight (generally) to know what kind of information is important to a doctor.
1	As a child I had sinus and ear infections almost monthly which led me to doctor visits very often. I believe I kept getting them because they over prescribed me antibiotics and lowered their effectiveness. Since I have been on my own I have never been to a doctor once. When I feel like I'm getting sick I rest and take vitamins and minerals. If I do get sick I just rest and get through it.
-1	A weight loss to reduce to a normal body weight through proper diet and lifestyle.
1	I've had to look after my sister with diabetes, so I've had knowledge of that. For example I know about her insulin pump, how to mage her blood sugars, etc.  Other than that I haven't had too many situations where I've had to demonstrate my knowledge of medical issues. 
1	I have an Associates Degree in Occupatiol Therapy and I worked as a therapist for 16 years.  Although I no longer work in the medical field, my years of experience have given me greater knowledge of medical issues than the general public.
-1	I have been diagnosed with a lot of health issues that taught me about them. I used to have a lot of different issues going on, and I was on a lot of medications that I learned a lot about as well. This taught me most of what I know about health and issues.
1	My daughter has type 1 diabetes. I have read extensively about this condition and the best ways to thrive with it. When we go to her endocrinologist, I feel very knowledgable about her condition and always understand what her doctor recommends.
-1	When I was having chest pains, I knew it was because of the birth control pill. Because birth control can cause you to be prone to blood clots, which is a early symptom.
1	I went to the beach with my best friend.  He flatly refused to use sunscreen, despite my advice that he do so.  He ended up with a bad sunburn, while I, who used sunscreen, did not.  
-1	Once I was having problems with murder blood pressure. It would go up more after I checked it. After reading online and seeing my Dr, turns out to be anxiety. So I stopped checking my blood pressure because it was making it worse.
1	I demonstrated knowledge of health issues when I identified symptoms I was feeling as needing medical attention. I don't generally think about or discuss problems, so listening to my body I think shows an intuitive knowledge, even if I don't have the capacity to completely break down the problem's cause or even the solution.
1	I don't have a specific moment showing my knowledge of a health or medical issue.
1	Recently I had been having problems which led me to believe I was suffering from an enlarged prostate.  Doing some research indicated I was correct.  This was later confirmed by my physician.
-1	I have a lot of nurses in my family.
1	Having an aunt who was a head nurse at our main hospital here in town.  Just being really close with her and soaking in alot of knowledge about stuff that she's told me and taught me over my lifetime.  Plus all of the reading I do on the internet. 
1	I am able to have a professiol conversation with our pediatrician. She understands my health background as well as my ability to alyze research related to my daughter's health.
1	I was in the emergency room with a heart rate of 180. The physicians and nurses did not know what was wrong and I had to give them the me of my condition and an actual physical handout about it so they could properly treat me. I filled them in while they frantically googled my sources. 
1	I used to work for a company that made glucometers doing customer service. So I have no medical training or expertise, but I often talked to people with diabetes and they would tell me a lot about their lives. I had a family member with no insurance who was telling me that she was having some symptoms that she thought might be diabetes. I immediately went and bought her a glucometer, and her blood sugar was way above normal. I recommended that she go to the hospital emergency room because I knew that level would be a huge deal, even for someone diagnosed with diabetes. 
-1	Persolly my many health issues. As well as being a ER Unit Secretary in my younger days. Plus I like medical stuff to an extent.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when i found out that myaubnt ad cancer and i really started looking into the treatmentsd and causes of it.
1	When I had excema, I researched the condition and became aware of the signs, symptoms, and remedies.
1	My mom has battled breast cancer twice and my dad has fought squamous cell carcinoma. I've been in and out of hospitals with them for most of my entire life.
1	This is absurd.. I am not a doctor or a medical professiol so how am I to respond to this? I will only humor this with a response that makes sense and that is based on my experiences with myself and family I learned about various allergies, diseases and ailments. Other then that? I have no knowledge or medical issues. as for health? same thing- experience.
1	Researching a diet that would eble me to lose weight, lower my blood sugar ( I was pre-diabetic) and lower my triglycerides significantly.  Being able to decide on a ketogenic diet after careful research demonstrated my knowledge of health issues.
1	Being diagnosed with fibromyalgia as a teeger.  I learned a lot then.
1	I am very susceptible to colds and sinus infections in the winter months; I usually will not go in to see the doctor unless the condition lasts for more than two weeks or gets worse.  I also never insist on antibiotics if the doctor does not think that they are necessary. 
-1	My boyfriend's mother was having the same issues as I had previously had, which I learned by diagnosis, so i told her what to do to treat symptoms until she could get in to see the doctor.
1	I checked my blood pressure at wal mart and found that it was high.  I went to a doctor and was prescribed medication.  I read the information given to me by the doctor and paid attention to the possible side effects and things I shouldn't take or do while taking my bp medications.
1	My niece was walking barefoot in our yard and stepped on a rusty il. I told her she would need a tetanus show, so I drove her to the local clinic.
1	One time I drove up on a pretty serious car accident and had to help keep the victim calm and still until the ambulance arrived. I didn't know what to do, but I knew they could have interl injuries and shouldn't move.
1	Dealing with an immediate family members diagnosis and treatment for breast cancer.  Learning about the options and reading the relevant literature.
-1	When I was younger I was diagnosed with testicular cancer. My doctor helped talk me through everything.
1	One time my mom described some symptoms she was having, and some awful diseases her doctors were checking her for. I asked her what medications she was taking, searched online, and was able to figure out her medications were causing her symptoms rather than Parkinson's disease, or something equally as terrible. 
1	I wouldn't say that I have a whole lot of knowledge, but I did convince my mother to see a doctor when she had a small mole.  It turned out that it was a small tumor and she was able to get it removed with long lasting issues.
-1	Usually, I am quite healthy.  A mild headache or temporary ache or pain in my body here and there.  A couple of tylenol and I'm fine.  This is how I know.  I've made it for 48 yrs this way.
1	seemed like most of it was just calculating results. seemed easy
1	When my brother was hospitalized for rhabdomyalisis, I diagnosed him before the doctor did. The Dr. thought I didn't know what I was talking about, and was certain it was something else, so he kept running more tests even though they continually proved me right.
1	My teege daughter recently changed endocrinologists and as the new doctor was asking us questions I realized how much I learned about diabetes over the years. 
1	I had to give a presentation about CRISPR, the gene editing tool, explaining how it's different from other methods and why it's capable of completely curing genetic diseases.
1	I am currently pregnt, so I have been doing a lot of research online about possible things that could affect my pregncy and make it more complicated. One thing is high blood pressure and how it is linked to pre-eclampsia. I read about how if you have high blood pressure then they will likely do a urine test to see if there is protein in it, which is a sign of pre-eclampsia. I can have high blood pressure sometimes, so it was no surprise to me when the midwife ordered a urine test to see if there was protein present. 
1	I was told to take a certain prescription for a condition, I was able to tell what I was supposed to take and how it would affect my persol health. 
1	I have had a benign heart condition since 2009, I have dealt with many doctors and specialists since. It was eventually decided my condition was not life threatening and benign and nothing to worry about.  I have become very knowledgeable in medical terminology.
-1	My recent visits to my Doctor's office showed that I could follow his directions. 
1	I had some training on inhalers for asthma. When one of my students with asthma started wheezing I knew to send him to the nurse for his inhaler.
-1	When i had surgery, i had to be in a cast and if i did not take care of myself i would have had to have surgery all over again. 
1	I had a c-section with my first child and there were complications because of it. I ended up in and out of the hospital for the first month after she was born. It cause me to take a bunch of medication and learn about all of the issues that were occurring with me. If I didn't take care of myself properly due to the infection i has, there would have been serious problems.
-1	I started to get a constant tickle in my throat and I made an appointment because I knew that something was coming...I thought it was bronchitis, but it was strep throat.
1	I have to give myself the correct dosages of medication on a daily basis, which I feel shows that I have a basic knowledge of medical issues.
1	I'm a recovering alcoholic, and I've been sober for a significant period of time. At one point, a doctor wanted to give me a prescription for a benzodiazepine. Because I'm aware of how similar benzodiazepines are to alcohol, I refused the prescription, for I felt it was too risky.
-1	I don't really have any persol experiences other when my children were sick. I gut used gut gut feelings about when to call the doctor.
1	I haven't had many experiences that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. The closest I've probably come to having an experience like that is that when someone I know talks about a medical condition, I usually know what it is already and they don't need to explain. I also have some basic first aid knowledge if that counts, and I've used it a couple of times during my life.
1	"Years ago, I had gallstones so bad that it blocked my bile duct. I turned yellow, my urine turned brown and I was in terrible pain. I had no idea what it was, but was quickly diagnosed and rushed in to have the stones ""scrubbed"" out. Two weeks later they removed my gallbladder. Recently, a friend began complaining of similar symptoms. I ran through all my previous experiences with her and she headed off to get it checked. Sure enough, she had gallstones. I'm no doctor, but was glad my experience could help someone else. "
1	Twice in my life, my doctors have put me on medications that were bad for me.  One, I was trying to get pregnt and she told me Accupril would be safe for that.  I had asked her at least a dozen times.  I found out that was not true and stopped the meds and a month later got pregnt. The other time I was given lisinopril and told it would protect my kidneys.  My kidney function basically tanked over the next 9 months going from 99% to 43%. I did some research and found out other people were experiencing the same thing.  I stopped the drug on my own again and in 6 months my rel function was back up to 80%.
1	I guess this survey. And my knowledge is awful because I had to guess on the last two questions.
-1	i woke up one night after hearing my wife crying in the kitchen. I found her curled up in a fetal position. I asked what happened. she said she ate something and suddenly felt severe stomach pain. I immediately had a hunch it could be stomach ulcers. I rushed her to the emergency room and it turned out to be true.
1	The other day my kid passed out and we took her to the ER. They were telling us it could possibly be a seizure which I clearly knew that she had just fainted. Thank goodness it was not a seizure.
1	I recognized some signs of illness that I was having.  I went to the doctor and told him about it.
1	When I had appendicitis, I was able to recognize possible symptoms and get myself to the hospital before it burst.
1	When I was at college, I began having severe symptoms of a UTI. However, I was not able to see a doctor regularly. I started drinking lots of fluids and cranberry juice and treating myself for a UTI before I was able to go into the doctor. When I went in she confirmed my assumptions and said that my proactivity in the situation prevented the infection from worsening and spreading up into my kidneys.
1	One time I was prescribed medicine for an infection. The medicine didn't work, so the doctor prescribed a different medicine. When I picked up the second medicine, I asked the pharmacist if it had any of the restrictions as the first medicine, such as what foods I should avoid and when would be the best time to consume it. 
-1	work experience
1	I was never stupid enough to try to evaluate myself. I always let the doctor diagnose me even if I thought I knew what was wrong with me.
1	I went for a testicular cancer test, and they used a sonogram to look for lumps. They said that I had a lot of weird veins and arteries down there, so that's what was feeling lumpy, and I shouldn't worry too much because it wasn't cancer. So now when I do my self-screening for testicular cancer in the shower, I have learned to feel for veins and arteries before I panic and think that I have a tumor.
1	When I was diagnosed with prostate cancer and before I made a decision about what treatment to select I read everything I could about the different methods of treatments and the likely outcome, both physically and emotiolly. I discussed each option with the doctor and then made a choice.
1	Every time I receive a new medication I need to understand medical issues. When I listen to the doctor describe a condition or how a medicine works, I need to understand medical issues. 
1	Growing up I spent a lot of time visiting my grandfather in hospitals and my grandmother was a pharmacist. I feel that by being around them I picked up a lot of medical knowledge by osmosis.
-1	Self-diagnoses of sicknesses. Knowing when to go to the doctor. Not being dead.
1	a friend cut her hand badly and i was able to stop the bleeding by applying pressure and keeping the wound above her heart. we then cleaned and bandaged her wound which healed fine. 
1	when i was in my 20's, i had to deal with endometriosis and infertility. i talked to doctors and everyone i could about these issues. i read books and searched the internet for anything i could find about these issues. i felt like i knew more than my fertility doctor did!
1	I know for a fact any time I pee and it is painful I have a UTI. Its something I have gotten many times before and it still happens once in a while no matter how much a try to follow all the rules for not getting one.
-1	If a family member or myself have a simple medical issue they usually ask me what to do, and I almost always can help out or at least stop them from worrying. For example, my father in law had a high blood sugar reading and I helped him get it down and advised him to get tested for diabetes
1	I think one experience was when I decided to stop eating meat. I always felt a bit sty before, so I decided to try cutting out different things to see if anything helped. I ended up cutting out meat and started eating healthier, and felt much better overall.
1	One day in the shower, I felt a lump in my breast.  I knew that my mother and grandmother had cystic breasts and that a cyst feels round and soft compared to cancer which can feel more irregular and hard.  Although I made an appointment to go see my doctor and they ended up giving me an ultrasound and mammogram, I wasn't very concerned because I knew the likelihood that this was cancer wasn't a lot because of the things I knew.
1	I was going into surgery to get my gallbladder removed.  I wanted to know what was going to happen before, during, and after the surgery.  I did some research online.  I talked to the anesthesiologist before being put out and talked to him about the drugs he was giving me.  He asked me if I was a medical student or a nurse because of how much I knew.  I told him no, I just did my research.
1	i can usually self diagnose through the internet so when i go in (i need to be damn near dead or something is broken to go in) i tell the doctor so here's what i have (typically strep) he agrees prescribes the z-pac and away i go
1	I used my medical knowledge when it I had to decide a treatment plan for my child when he was diagnosed with bronchitis. I made sure the medication prescribed did not have side effects and they were absolutely necessary. 
1	I just learned some stuff through school, or just reading. I don't go to the doctor that often. I never had any major medical issues. I don't have any family members who have major medical issues either.
1	I have taken numerous health related college courses and am well versed in how to find and obatian medical information and how to research medical jourls. I had a close relative that was in the hospital after a very bad accident and I was able to research their condition and gain the knowledge to help them make informed medical decisions as part of their recovery.  
-1	Reading through document about bell's palsy and knowing what to expect because a relative had experienced it.
1	A couple of months ago, I started a keto diet. This diet is similar to the Atkins diet. The major difference is you add more fats and healthy oils. After a week or two of no sugar and lows carbs, you're body will go into Ketoisis. This uses stored fat instead of carbs for energy.
1	I was speaking with someone at my church, who mentioned that their son had scoliosis. I asked her how severe it was; what the degree of the curvature was. She was surprised that I was that knowledgeable about it, and I told her that my son had it as well so I knew about it.
-1	I remember a friend telling me he suffered from very strong headaches that made him sensitive to light and sometimes sounds. He complained that the pain was a pulsing one. You could always describe it as throbbing. I mentioned to him that it sounded like a migraine headache, something I suffer from. I told him to see his doctor to make sure, but it sounded like a migraine to me. Turns out that was what it exactly was.  
1	About 10 years ago I self-diagnosed my Autism Spectrum Disorder. I was filly professiolly diagnosed about 8 years later. During that time I learned more than the doctors who refused to listen to my concerns.
1	I've worked as a life and health insurance agent in the past. Often I would help older people with medicare supplement plans. Going through the various plans, overages, deductibles, etc., took a fair amount of knowledge. Drug pricing, altertives and availability. Hospital costs, referral procedures. I would often help them to understand medical terminology.
1	I had a two day stay at the hospital. I was treated for low sodium,because of a drug interaction. I had to answer a lot of questions and i learned a lot.
1	My husband's urine smelled sweet. I told him to see doctor. Sure enough, he was diabetic.
1	My grandmother had heart surgery and she developed a staff infection. They also found pre-cancer cells in her throat at the same time. My family heard cancer and freaked out. I was more concerned with the infection because she was old and pre-cancer cells could take decades to actually turn into cancer. The doctor said i was right and calmed my family the immediate concern was the infection and the heart.   
-1	The research I did on my own issues and the books I read. I looked at WebMD, Wikipedia (even though it's not secure), and other sites. I even took an atomy course where we picked a disease relevant to the chapter and wrote a short discussion board post about it.
1	I was the caregiver and advocate for my father who was dying of lung cancer. I dealt with his doctors and the hospice nurses daily for many months.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I was younger I got a rare disease that made me really sick. During this time I was forced to start learning and understanding different medicine and side effects. 
1	I had a liver disease issue. I looked up information on the matter. I became knowledgeable. I discussed the matter with my doctor in an informed manner.
-1	This may seem a bit odd, but my mother was a nurse and once told me that you can judge health by stool samples. As a result of being told this, I would not allow my children to flush the toilet until they were past the age of 10 so I could check their stools each time they went. If they had a loose stool, I varied their diet. If their stool appeared hard, I varied their diet. Also, when they had too much energy, rather than assume they needed medication, I had them exercise - it worked every time. And one other instance, my younger son was slow to talk. An in-law suggested something was wrong. I explained he had no problem communicating what he wanted or needed and, thus, nothing was wrong. I was right; she was wrong.
1	I was able to effectively communicate that an insect bite on my hand wasn't a mosquito but was a spider bite. 
1	I have self treated illnesses that most people believe you need to go to the doctor for. 
1	"I'm not really sure. I had cancer twice so I guess as I was doing chemo I understood how all this stuff was supposed to work. I knew Everytime I went to the hospital what the routine was, and knew everywhere I needed to go. I'm not sure I really ""demonstrated"" my knowledge but this is the only thing I can think of."
1	I was having issues sleeping. And after some research i found out I was snoring in my sleep and had sleep apnea.
1	My mom went to the ER thinking that she was having a heart attack or at the very least heart problems.  I accompanied her to the hospital although I told her her symptoms were not necessarily heart related and that she really just needed to relax and work on stress reduction.  The doctors agreed with me but went ahead and performed heart stress test.  There was nothing found.
1	I've taken a few atomy classes in college. Besides that, I don't have too much experience.  
1	When taking my son for a follow up appointment after getting croup, I felt I could understand and communicate with the doctor about all of the medications given and treatment protocol. 
-1	I fell down a flight of stairs.  My son insited I broke my ankle but I assured him I probably had a hair line fracture.  The bone had not come through and I was somewhat able to walk on it.
-1	Like I wrote before... my wife was diagnosed with cervical cancer and we both fought that diseases....  I was on a phone call with all kind of specialists, doctors and technicians...  we got some more experience than we wanted. 
1	"A few weeks ago, my brother hit his head at work. He'd had several mild concussions as a child and pretty much self-diagnosed himself as having another one this time. (Yes, that's wildly irresponsible. Yes, he should have gone to the doctor. You know what, tell it to fucking Nikki Haley because it's her fault he's not insured.) He did some research about concussion and painkillers and said he needed to take something other than Excedrin, preferably Tylenol. He was pretty upset because we didn't have any Tylenol and his head hurt. So I realized that often, different me brands of the same medicine will have similar mes, and another painkiller that ended in ""ol"" might have the same active ingredient as Tylenol. I looked up the active ingredients online and checked the bottle to make sure, and then gave him a Midol from my supply. So most of the medical knowledge in that scerio came from him, but I was the one who realized that Midol would probably help and did the research to verify it."
1	When my aunt was sick with cancer a few years ago, I read up about information from John Hopkins to see how I could help help and then told her about it and provided literature. It showed her how she could alleviate pain through a lot of methods that I persolly assisted her with, and later it her cancer went into recession, happily.
-1	I have had a few health issues that caused me to speak with doctors.  I was always able to have my questions answered. I understood information 
1	When a friend of mine had an allergic reaction, I had helped to take care of him as the ambulance showed up. 
1	As a teeger when I felt a pain in my right side I knew that I needed to get to my doctor as soon as possible, because it could have potentially been appendicitis. It turned out to be something different, but I knew enough to get to a doctor and have them give me an examition. 
1	Someone had fallen at my place of work and was a pale yellow color and also was clutching his chest. I called 911 and had the people that were already on the floor with him trying to see if he's okay, to prop his head up and leave him still until emergency services arrived.
1	When I had an abnormal papsmear, I knew it was possible that it was a false positive. I went through the extra testing and listened to everything the doctor told me and understood thoroughly the process.
-1	When my mother in law got sick with cancer she needed alot of support.  Since having going through it with my mom, I was able to tell her some of the things that she would possibly experience with chemo.  We were able to go to the store to get some things to make her comfortable throughout the process.
1	In high school I had severe headaches for weeks and missed school for two weeks straight, after seeing multiple doctors I filly understood what was going on in my body and I learned that I had Mitral Valve Prolapse. 
1	My daughter frequently has rashes and I have taken her in a few times to have them checked out but they are just eczema. Now I am able to diagnose that myself. We also are able to handle small issues at home like colds and mild fevers with confidence.
1	I guess any atomy exam I've taken would fit this since those literally involved demonstrating medical knowledge, but outside of school I guess the most fitting thing I can think of was when a friend of mine wasn't feeling well and wasn't sure his symptoms meant. I sussed out based on what he was experiencing that it was probably a UTI that was progressing towards the bladder and kidneys, and recommended he see a doctor immediately. It was indeed a bladder infection, and he was able to get effective treatment. I'm glad that my knowledge of that particular health condition helped, as he might not have sought treatment right away otherwise.
1	I worked in a residential care facility for 11 years as a certified medical aide. It was my job to dispense medication according to doctor's orders, as well as provide medical care to patients who had medical procedures done like surgeries, for example. We also had clients who would have to do certain things to prepare them for the procedures, which usually included a list of doctors orders like fasting, colon cleansing, etc.
1	An experience that occurred that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues would be when my mother was telling my about some symptoms she was experiencing which raised some red flags. I was extremely concerned with the symptoms she was describing so I insisted she speak with a medical professiol to be examined to find out what were causing her symptoms.
1	Several years ago I was having trouble getting pregnt. I had to go through a bunch of fertility treatments including giving myself shots. I researched everything and spoke with medical professiols on many occasions. Not long after my first child was born, I had a friend going through the same exact thing that I had gone through. I was able to explain a lot of what she would have to do and what it would be like for her since I had just gone through it.
1	My boyfriend has MS and during the time of his diagnosis I spent a lot of time doing research in order to to keep up with doctors when discussing his medical options, as well as on medications that were mentioned.
1	Nothing special, It's just migraine.
1	When my daughter fell and hurt her ankle, I was able to stabilize and care for her until we were able to get to a night time clinic for professiol care. The doctor on staff confirmed that I had provided the correct temporary care for her.
1	For a good portion of 2015, I was sick. I had a fever, cold, body aches, etc. at least twice a month. Last year, I started eating about five cloves of raw garlic every day. It's a killer on my breath, but I haven't been sick since.
1	I was sick with flu and stuck on work/travel.  I filly insisted home-time so I could rest, eat fruit, granola, yogurt, and take vitamin C.  I was better in less than a day after being sick for a week.
-1	I have high blood pressure and high cholesterol so I am familiar with medical terms and how they affect my life. I was a corrections officer in the infirmary and had several cases that I was able to help because of recognizing certain symptoms.  
1	I have asthma so that has made me more aware of my health choices and medical issues. 
1	I have  had issues with my teeth. due to that i have some knowlage or antibiots and pain killers. 
1	One time I was talking with a co-worker and she was talking about her nephew that had been born with heart defects.  I know a lot about congenital heart defects because my daughter has that also.
1	When my mother doted her kidney to my aunt, I feel like I learned a lot about medical issues. The entire family felt the need to educate ourselves on the issue. Overall, I feel like I became much more comfortable with the medical environment as a result.
1	At one point in my life i was constantly sore and fatigued. No matter how much sleep i had i would always be tired and had poor recovery from excercise. After researching and cutting out all forms of sugar, processed foods, and dairy and started to eat a plant based diet, My health became amazing. I looked and felt amazing. I never even imagined it was possible to feel so good and have so much energy
-1	I recently went through surgery to remove some abnormal cells off of my cervix and this opened my eyes to better women's health.
-1	I had to take an MRI on my knees to look for problems. The nurse was trying to explain to me how it worked but I already knew how because I had read about them. 
1	In the past, I have had kidney stones. During the emergency room visit, I was given an IV of an anti-inflammatory drug. I was also told to drink plenty of fluids and was forced to urite. I was able to successfully pass the stone.
-1	When I went to the doctor and I understood what he was saying without Leigh man's terms 
1	I once was able to explain to my friend some of the details of childbirth. This only sticks out in my mind because they had no idea about the process at all. I also had a decent amount of details about the process. 
1	My mother is 93 years old and has dementia and my husband and myself are her caregivers. We monitor and take care of her health including her type II diabetes and blood pressure. She has had various health issues including hospitalization due to falls and from all this experience we have learned much on how to cope with and mage her health and safety as well as being aware of complications and things to monitor
-1	I had really bad pains in my right side after eating several times.  I suspected it was my gall bladder because I have friends wohad similar problems.  I had to visit the doctor.  I was correct.
1	When I needed emergency surgery after a twisted intestine due to gastric bypass I was able to follow along with what tests and procedure information my doctor was going to do and perform.
-1	My daughter has a history of passing out and when it happened the first time she had a battery of tests that told us that nothing was wrong with her. It happened several more times and while teachers and coaches freaked out when it happened, I informed them that it was likely caused by my daughter being under the weather - having a cold come on or a low grade fever - as that is what caused these episodes previously. I knew this because of the previous doctor visits and asking questions while at these visits. 
-1	When I tried to eat salads
1	My wife burnt her arm on the stove.  I put it under cool water and then applied aloe vera to it and bandages it.
1	After i was diagnosed with Type II diabetes (three years ago) i got little to no help from my Dr. So, i took to the net and learned everything i could about it. One thing i learned is that i can deduct the fiber count from the carb count and that will be my total net carb intake.   When i was at my Dr's office and mentioned this, she did not seem to know about it or was surprised that i knew about. 
1	I recently had kidney stones again. I had them once before a year ago, and when I started having pain in my back I knew that it was most likely kidney stones. I went to the doctor and it took a while for them to do tests to find it but eventually they found the stone in my ureter. I was right about my diagnosis. 
1	Strokes and high blood pressure run in the family. When my mother called and said her right eye vision was blocked like a curtain had been pulled down half way I knew we had to get her to the hospital quickly. She was having a TIA. She had many of them during her last 2 years alive. They usually lasted only minutes.
1	A time that I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues in my life was when I was with my friend David. David suffers from diabetes and fainted when we were out walking the streets of shville. I was very aware of his condition and ran into the nearest restaurant and got orange juice. We rushed back to David and gave him the orange juice and some food and he was able to get oriented pretty quickly after that before checking his sugar and insulin levels. 
1	
1	I have given birth 4 times. Each experience was different and I had to know about what I needed to do in each situation. The options open to me for pain relief and how they could affect me and the baby. 
1	A friend of mine was displaying all the symptoms of anxiety but didn't think anything was wrong, that it was just a rough patch she was going through. I helped her and showed her medical stuff that made her go to the doctor and get treatment. She's feeling much better now.
1	When I was diagnosed with thyroid disease and the depression that is often related to the disease did not go away after being medicated and having normal results, I researched and found that I may need an addition medication to help with the absorption of the synthroid. I spoke with my doctor and he prescribed me the additiol medication to help me absorb the synthroid better. As a result, my depression did go away... which could have been due to my request...I also have had other chronic health issues that I am knowledgeable about only because I have been undergoing treatment for decades. I also noticed a friend having neurological side effects from long term haldol use. I told this friend that I thought he may have tardive dyskinesia which, as it turned out, he did...   Other than that I do not believe I have a great knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	When I birthed my son, I took no preparation courses and I handled the birth well. I understood the progression of labor to delivery and knew what to expect without educating myself otherwise. 
1	having gone to the doctors myself and then going with my family members
1	I just go to the doctor and have seen people be diagnosed. I know basic stuff
1	My daughter was stung by a wasp last August. We were celebrating my ex-wife's birthday with her when this happened, and she has a tendency to panic about things. I thought she was just comforting the little one upstairs, but when I went to check she was on the phone with 911 concerned about allergic reaction. It had been long enough that it was pretty clear our daughter wasn't going to have any kind of serious 911-warranting emergency reaction so I helped the operator convince her that she was overreacting and calm her down.
1	I have a undergrad degree in human biological sciences. This degree is essentially a pre-med degree. 
1	I got salmonella poisoning one time, I was very sick for 5 days. I filly took my temperature and it was at 105 degrees. I knew that anything above 104 could be deadly, so I arranged a ride to take me to the emergency room.
1	I remember a spring where I was constantly congested and had itchy eyes. With the knowledge I had about my symptoms and exterl factors, I guessed I had allergies or hay fever. I felt confident in knowing why my body was like that.
-1	I've had to sanitize and bandage a few of my own wounds that weren't serious enough for stitches.
1	what i typically do to help my hypertension is read a lot of nutritiol labels. i try to keep my sodium intake fairly low (a lot of salt makes me really bloated anyway) and i always look at fat and carb content. this is something i do every time i buy a packaged food that has a label on it. if it doesn't have a label, i look it up on my phone if i am shopping. this helps me be much more knowledgeable and aware of what i am eating.
1	One experience that demonstrates my medical knowledge was that I lost about 30 pounds over two years and gained a good amount of healthy lean muscle. Getting fit involved learning about and counting calories, choosing healthy proteins and carbohydrate sources with enough fat, and learning about exercise. Through this learning process, I was able to lose this weight in a healthy way, and improve in my efforts at the gym greatly. 
1	In general, I have little knowledge of health and medical issues. The only thing I can think of to describe is a time in my early twenties when I went on a no-grain diet. I had read about the diet and what it entailed, and while looking back, I think it was a poor choice, I was clearly acting on knowledge (however misguided) of a health topic. 
1	My teachers spent considerable time with me making sure that I understood word problems. While I cannot proclaim to be the best, I can say that I am competent.
1	I worked as an Arizo Paramedic for 10 years
1	I had a knowledge of health issues when I saw a spot on my mom's hand. I knew the ABCD method of detecting skin cancer, so I told my mom she should get to a doctor because it fit all the criteria. Sure enough, the doctor said that it was skin cancer after he performed a biopsy and she had surgery to remove it. Luckily it was still in the early stages, but the doctor said I should be proud of myself for noticing and knowing the criteria, because if I had just brushed it off, it could have gotten a lot worse. 
1	calling 911 when I had a heart attack
1	My husband is a T1 diabetic, my daughter was born with spi bifida and my grandmother is blind. I have a lot of experience with hospitals, doctors, and their forms.
-1	MY HUSBAND WAS FEELING DIZZY AND FELT WEAK. KNOWING THAT MY MOM'S FAMILY HAD LOW BLOOD SYMPTOMS AND AFTER CHECKING HIS BLOOD PRESSURE, I KNEW HIS SUGAR WAS LOW. SO, I GAVE HIM ORANGE JUICE.
1	I 'm not sure that I really have one. I am on medications for anxiety and depression. Before they figured out what worked for me, I went through a long list of medications that did not work, so in that sense, I was able to determine what worked for me. 
1	I cut my finger while working in the dirt. I had to keep working, but i knew mi finger would get infected if I did without taking care of it. So I washed it, cleaned it with peroxide, bandaged it then put a glove over my hand. It healed fine and never got infected
1	I was able to help my mom choose the correct insulin when she was faced with a choice of switching medicine. I was able to help her read and understand the benefits and side effects of each drug.
1	My friend broke his arm a few years back. I was the only one around so I made a splint out of sweater and some wood. When we got to the ER, the nurse complimented me on my splint.
1	I was sent home from the hospital and told to monitor my intake and outake to check for kidney function.  I measured everything I drank and all urine to determine whether or not to call the doctor.  At one point, my intake was almost twice my outtake.  I called the doctor and was hospitalized because my kidneys were shutting down.
-1	I just have a general knowledge about health and medicine. I do not have any significant expertise, and i have not gone to med school. But when my son scrapes his knee, I clean the wound and put on a band aid. 
1	I went with a relative to the doctor for a medial emergency. The doctor made assumptions and gave them the wrong diagnosis. They began ordering all kinds of tests that were for the wrong things. I told them what to really check for based on the symptoms and I was correct. They canceled the tests and changed the diagnosis. 
1	It's less a specific experience and more a general one; about ten years ago I generally felt awful: constant aches and pains, low energy, difficulty breathing, bad mood, poor concentration, frequently sick with colds and sinus infections. It didn't take a lot of knowledge to know what was wrong - I was out of shape, had a poor diet, smoked cigarettes and drank alcohol. I set out and learned a lot about nutrition and exercise, I quit smoking and drinking, and I put a plan in place to gradually change my lifestyle in a way that was sustaible. Today I'm in perfect health, happy, energetic, focused, and haven't so much as had a sniffle in over two years.
1	A couple of years ago, I began to feel extremely anxious. This is a problem because it told me my anti-anxiety/anti-depressant medication was no longer doing its job. My doctor chose to make no adjustments. I knew, from being told by several different therapists, that eventually mental health medications can either stop working or bring your brain chemistry up to a level where it's no longer needed. That I might need off the medication or to be switched to a different one. My doc seemed uware of this. When I couldn't get the help I needed, I changed docs.
1	I was a witnes of a car accident,two weeks ago. I stopped to look after the drivers and there were no bad injuries at first look.One of them was limping and complained about some pain in his leg.I told him to sit down ot lie down,while we were waiting for the ambulance.
-1	When I decided to get into shape. I did all my due diligence and learned the value of eating clean and exercising regularly. By learning to restrict my calories and exercising to create a caloric deficit. This not only helped me drop the pounds but helped with my asthma. 
1	My child was sick and caught croup. My wife freaked out and said we should go to the hospital, I told her there was nothing they could do and to just make a doctor's appointment instead.
-1	When I was twelve years old, a drunk driver hit the car my mother was driving while I was in the backseat. I have very few memories of the accident, but I do faintly recall a serious but calming face as I was gently lifted out of the car. The paramedic held my hand as we traveled to the hospital. I was in the hospital for several weeks and that same paramedic came to visit me almost every day. During my stay, I also got to know the various doctors and nurses in the hospital on a persol level. I remember feeling anxiety about my condition, but not sadness or even fear. It seemed to me that those around me, particularly my family, were more fearful of what might happen to me than I was. I dont believe it was innocence or ignorance, but rather a trust in the abilities of my doctors
1	I can't say there has been an experience in my life that would demonstrate medical knowledge. 
1	I guess I would return to my earlier statement in that I am a mother who spent a lot of time dealing with everyone's health issues in my family. I have also taken care of helping my parents because they are aging and get confused. I wouldn't say that I feel completely comfortable with everything related to health decisions, but if I have questions, I ask and I also do a lot of research before I make decisions. I have had to do additiol testing in the past for health issues, and I felt comfortable with my choices after I dug deeply into the issues myself. Ultimately I am the one who wants to decide what happens to me, either good or bad.
1	Having gone to my first doctor who approved me for operation on my septum, felt the need to explain things to me about the process as well in simplistic terms and when I explained to him that I already knew it made him angry and then later refused to perform the operation on me by constantly pushing me back until I had to change medical carriers and could no longer get him to perform the surgery.
1	I diagnosed myself with cholecystitis. I had an episode of severe right upper quadrant abdomil pain and gastrointestil symptoms a few hours after having a large meal with a high fat content. It happened again several days later. I figured out what the cause was and made an appointment with my doctor. I told him my symptoms, and what thought the diagnosis was. He ordered an ultrasound to confirm it, and I needed a cholecystectomy. My doctor at the time was one of my favorite doctors, and I think he would've diagnosed me properly, but I know that cholecystitis is missed sometimes and getting an accurate diagnosis can sometimes take quite a bit of time while other diseases or conditions are ruled out. 
1	I was discovered to have high blood pressure a few years ago.  I started taking medication and my BP was lower but I felt terrible.  No energy at all.  So I went back to the doctor and described my symptoms so he put me on a different pill and now I'm doing fine.  I guess that demonstrates my understanding of making sure I get the right medication for me.
1	My college did a free health screening that I participated in, and while I was being explained my results I was able to correct the medical student on several items.
1	There was a time that I fell and hurt my wrist. I couldn't twist my wrist or bend it without pain and I knew that it was more than just a sprain. I figured it was broken and so I went to the hospital to have an x-ray.
1	A friend of mine actually recently had a mammogram that came out positive. I told her there was a good chance that it was a false positive and might just be a cyst or something. It did in fact turn out to be a false positive.
-1	Probably when I had to go for lab work and had to find out about my thyroid. I knew I had a high TSH level, but my Free T3 and my Free t4 was insanely low too. So I had to tell my doctor about those and she was shocked and said I was right. So now we not only look at my TSH , we also look at my Free T3 Free t4 too. Because you can have a normal TSH but have low Free T3 and Free t4 in hypothyroidism. I feel my best when my levels are optimal, not just normal.
1	A FEW MONTHS AGO MY DAUGHTER HAD A SORE THROAT, FEVER, AND HAD TROUBLE SWALLOWING. BECAUSE THERE HAD BEEN A FEW INSTANCES OF STREP THROAT IN HER SCHOOL, I HAD REASON TO BELIEVE THAT SHE DID TOO. I KEPT HER OUT OF SCHOOL, MADE HER REST AND DRINK A LOT, AND I TOOK HER TO THE DOCTOR. MY GUESS WAS CONFIRMED, AND AN ANTIBIOTIC WAS PRESCRIBED.. 
1	I was diagnosed with a chronic disease a few years ago. I searched a lot of medical information and knowledge online, and consulted with many peoples about this disease. Now, i am taking some medicines to control this disease. I could adjust my medicines based on the self-testing results now. 
-1	Mostly contra indications of my husband's many meds, how to maintain a dyalysis patient, deal with doctors and ask questions that got my husband the right treatment. Also stopped an amputation of Grandmother's leg by indicating the need for a Doppler as she had phlebitis. Only her toe was then amputated.
1	"At one point, I was reading on the appearance of ""floaters"" in one's field of vision out of curiosity since I experienced them very irregularly.  Within a few months, my mom complained to me that she was seeing them very frequently, and I tried to explain to her the potential causes for them, including retil tearing.  Because of this, she went to the doctor and was told she had almost experienced a severe reti tear in one of her eyes."
1	I once had an abscessed tooth which caused major swelling in my gums. I remembered that peroxide worked as a mild antiseptic agent and salt water tends to reduce inflammation. With the combition of both of these things, I was able to reduce the swelling.
1	My husband told me he was peeing blood and that it hurt to pee. He tends to freak out about these things. I told him it was just a UTI. I told him I could make an appointment for him in the morning, but he dove to the ER instead. They said it was an UTi and gave him antibiotics. Im SO glad he listened to me :( spent $300 at the ER instead of waiting for the morning to see his regualr physician and co pay of $30.
1	My youngest brother is a diabetic, has been since he was two years old.  He came to live with me as an adult.  One morning he knocked on my bedroom door and said he felt funny.  His neck hurt, he had blood on his t shirt and on his lips.  I asked him to open his mouth.  i could see teeth marks on his tongue.  I knew he had had a seizure.  I got some juice into him and called an ambulance.
1	When I received a spider bite from an unknown spider, I knew that I should keep an eye on the bite in case it became serious. I drew a circle around the bite and watched to see if it became bigger. When it did, I went to the doctor and got treatment. I had an infection that was easily treatable.
1	Last summer I had some strange symptoms that fit the description of a heart attack. Though I'm relatively healthy and young I went to the hospital anyway, and what followed was two days of test and abnormal results and medical jargon thrown at me from every direction. I was moderately able to figure it out and to start offering other symptoms that I had experienced previously but didn't think could be related to help the doctor filly make a diagnosis. 
1	I have a minor in Community Health so I am a bit more in tune with medical issues than most. Whenever I have any medical problem I research it on the internet heavily so I usually know quite a bit before getting to the medical office.
1	     I have severe headaches all the time.  I was given topomax (spelling?) and was promised it would help.  It made the headaches worse and caused a number of bad other side effects.  I did research and found this to be commonly known.  It seemed like my doctor just wanted to write a prescription and get me out of there.
1	I have high cholesterol myself and educated myself on the effects of statins and eating right when I discovered that I had it.
1	I had never had an abnormal mammogram until I moved to a new area of the country, and my old mammograms were lost due to flooding. For the next several years I was told I needed further screening after every single annual mammogram. None of this further screening revealed any signs of cancer. I discussed the situation with my doctor and asked to be sent to a different provider for my next mammogram. I have not had an abnormal mammogram since.
1	my mom had a bulge on her aorta. The doctor wanted to watch it and use medication, but when I searched info online we found out it was borderline for surgery, so my mom asked for surgery instead.
1	I got a job at 22 at University of Michigan Medical Transcription department that paid well because I passed the medical terminology test (my mom is a retired nurse and my dad is a retired hospital administrator).
1	When I asked to be induced with my first son.  I knew something was not right.  My glucose test came back fine but I had every symptom of GD and the OB would not listen to me.  Once my due date hit, I was able to be induced.  At the time of delivery, I had gained 100 lbs, had a ton of swelling, high BP, extreme thirst and ended up having an 11 lb baby,
1	I have worked during the summer at a Day Camp for elementary aged students for a number of years.  One day a camper bumped their mouth on the edge of the pool jumping in and I needed to give them first aid.  
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues was when I was able to recognize the signs of congestive failure in a friend (shortness of breath, fluid, tiredness)
1	I started having a rash and before going to the doctor I determined it was psoriasis and that is what the doctor told me too.
1	My dad has type-2 diabetes. Having grown up watching him interact with this disease, I have learned much about it and the ways that he must use to mage it. I have also learned how this disease might affect me and have adopted practices to prevent it in my own life.
1	My doctor informed me that I have high blood pressure. I know that taking high blood pressure medication will lower my blood pressure readings and reduce the chance that I might have a stroke. 
1	My father and older brother each had corory bypass by the age of 70.  I have regularly chelated using an IV of either EDTA or Di-sodium calcium to remove plaque from my circulatory system.  According to a Doppler measurement, I have almost zero blockage.  I also take enough testosterone to keep my levels at the high of normal for a 20 year old male.  Therefore, I am able to grow muscle, I do lift heavy and have muscles, agility, sex drive, low body fat and high energy.
1	Telling someone that they didn't have a problem when they thought that they did. My friends tongue was green for a couple of days and she thought something serious was going on but I suggested that she likely has mucus dripping from a post-sal drip and it is coloring your tongue. She went to the doctor who had confirmed what I had told her.
1	Was diagnosed with MRSA infection that required medical attention with antibiotics IV according to the infection disease doctor.   Disagreed with her diagnosis and saw another who recultured and found no MRSA in sample. Learned that a second opinion is always warranted. I never trust the first doctor who tells me something is wrong. I always get a second opinion regarding my own persol health. 
-1	This would had to be when i did a presentation in front of a class about smoking and the harmful effects it cause to ones health and body.
1	I am currently in a situation where we have been trying to determine what is my heath issues. I have had to do some of my own research and talk to many specialists to determine my issues. sometimes I am given a lot of medical jargon. most I understand and repeat my understanding to my doctors just to make sure we are on the same page about the information they are giving me.
-1	I have really sensitive skin and I have been told I had scabies and different sorts of issues.  However we found out by trying different doctors that it is a rare form of excema. It didn't feel like things borrowing it just itched. I wasn't going to take the first doctors prognosis and attempted to try others.
1	I have extensively researched an illness my sister is suffering from and have helped lead her in the right direction by having her ask doctors the appropriate questions to get the treatment that she needs.
1	I had a mammogram that was a false positive. They wanted me to come back in but I didn't. I have been told in prior years that my breast are dense. This will cause a false positive over 90% of the time. 
1	I've worked for nonprofit that assisted low income women obtain healthcare, primarly breast health.  In this capacity I dealth with healthcare professiols.
1	When my son was given antiobiotics and immediately had a rash appear. I knew that I should give him bedryl then call the nurse line for further instructions. I also knew it was important to watch his airway.
-1	I learned a lot of about medical care in the Marine corps as they train you regarding health in order to prepare you for treating yourself and others in a combat environment. I also briefly worked in an emergency room driving their persol ambulance. I have also studied clinical mental health and have an interest in the medical field. I also always do my own research regarding medical advice given to me so I suppose you can add being self taught.
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of my medical issues when I had to seek help for a parent who was suffering from dehydration and passing out. 
1	I was diagnosed with high blood pressure and lowered it by taking fish oil.  It worked well for me.
1	"When people regularly have headaches, they will usually be told or given remedies for the ""moment of pain"". Usually, the cause is linked in some way to an amino acid deficiency. L-tryptophan comes to mind as well as its subsequent 5-htp derivative."
-1	I havent had any major conflicts with health.
1	"When my son was an infant, I went for a doctor's visit. I ended up seeing a doctor whom I'd not seen before. He started telling me that I needed to schedule a mammogram very soon since I'd never had one and was ""just a few years away from turning 40."" My son was nursing exclusively full-time. I told him that, since I was not having breast issues and I was nursing an infant, I thought it better to wait until the baby was bigger and not nursing so often.  My regular doctor and my midwife both agreed with me."
1	I do not know how to answer this as I feel all my experiences lead me to this knowledge of health or medical issues as I try to study and learn as much as possible. This question is either unclear or I just am not understanding it. I can only reiterate: no one experience demonstrated my knowledge. I try to make myself knowledgeable whenever I have a medical issues by studying and inquiring.
-1	It was five years ago when I got a right leg fracture because I was having MVA during my vacation.The injury is not that serious but it causes a small fracture on my right leg ankle.I was having an encounter with ornithologist and I'm glad that he was able to help my condition and healed in less than two months.During those times, I often ask him every single procedure he did to me because I want to know what is the indication of every procedure and medicines so he taught me so.
1	When I went to the doctor for issues with a stress fracture in my leg. This had been a reoccurring issue in my life, and I was able to understand what the doctor was describing as far as the impacts on my leg.
1	I slipped on some ice and fell on my side. Initially I thought I had just bruised my elbow, but when I found a few hours later that I was having pain and trouble applying grip strength in certain positions I knew I should get it looked at. After some x-rays it was eventually diagnosed as a fracture.
1	I don't really have an instance or can recall anything which I showed knowledge about health issues. I don't generally read up on health and medical publications,. If anything, when I'm unsure of something, I look it up on the internet. 
-1	I had kidney stone problem. I did not know it. When I was travelling, my pains started and I was alone in a long distance trip. I called 911.
1	I am a caregiver for elderly patients. I once recognized a stroke symptom in a patient. 
1	The first experience that comes to mind is helping my daughter with a diet and exercise program for school sports. She was very interested in being as healthy and physically fit as she could and I was able to help her quite a bit due to my previous experiences.
1	There was this one time that I had sunburn on my face.  Then my face had some swelling becuase of the sunburn.  I put a cold ice pack on my face and it made my face feel better.  This is how I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	My brother was suffering from a headache. I told him to drink water as it was most likely the cause. He drank water and the pain had gone.
1	When my children have fevers I give them tylenol and make them rest and check their temperature often to see if we need to go to the pediatrician. 
1	I have had fibromyalgia, chronic fatigue syndrome and arthritis for over 25 years.  In addition, I was diagnosed with cancer 10 years ago which required surgery and follow-up chemotherapy.  I still have many checkups and medical tests to monitor all of my conditions on a regular basis due to the after effects of previous treatments.  It is very important to me to keep up with my understanding of medical issues.
1	My father was hospitalized.  My mother was having trouble understanding a pain treatment so I spoke with his doctor and rephrased the information in a way that she could understand.
1	My husband's grandmother was told that she had cancer and that she needed to go to an oncologist. I can't remember the exact word they used, but she thought she did not have cancer and I told her and my husband what the word meant and that she did have cancer, which she continued to insist was not true. the oncologist told her differently. 
1	A while back, I started having difficulty uriting and I had a swollen and tender lymph node in my groin. I thought it was likely that I had a UTI. I visited a walk-in clinic, was prescribed antibiotics, and the symptoms cleared within the week.
1	I work in medical app development so most days invlove this knowldege.
1	I took nutrition in college and so I felt that I understood how to be healthy, and I got a bit obsessed with things like phytates in oats. I would try to organize my diet to maximize nutrient absorption.
1	Recently my brother in law was committed for psychiatric treatment.  My husband had lots of questions about diagnoses and medications his brother was taking.  I've taken psychiatric medication before for depression and anxiety so I was able to explain to my husband about some of the medications his brother was taking.
1	"I can't really think of an experience off hand to be honest. I'm pretty good at giving people general nutritiol advice but almost no one ever takes it. I tried to teach a friend of mine how to read a nutrition label once, but she got ""distracted"" and we never did finish."
1	When my diabetic father woke up with mental confusion one night I was correct that he had low blood sugar and needed to eat.
1	I really don't know how to answer this question. I really can't say I've had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues. If I have a problem, I will either make an appointment with a doctor, or I will research online and probably attempt to treat, avoid or ignore whatever issue I am facing depending on its severity.
1	
1	I went to the dermatologist and found out I was correct about a rash that had appeared on my forehead. I had been putting on a mix of over the counter creams that she was going to recommend, but I found them to be lacking so she gave me a prescription for something stronger to help.
1	I was able to recognize the symptoms of kidney stones in a friend of mine. I had had them before and he was thinking of calling an ambulance. He was worried it was his appendix but I told him it was on the wrong side, as his pain was on the left side.
-1	I dont know if I would call it experience. Its more like just dealing with it by looking at all the options that are available and how effective they are and making a choice and hope that you can afford it.
1	When I first went to the dermatologist, the nurse was impressed that I knew what salicylic acid was. Now that I'm a bit older, they usually don't think it's as cute.
-1	I had a cyst on my butt that I tried to treat at home until the pain became so unbearable that I had to seek medical help. The doctor sliced open the swollen area and odorous pulse came out of it. After spending a couple of days in the hospital for observation, the doctor asked my why I waited so long to come to a doctor and that what I had could have developed into something much worse.
-1	one year i had a false positive getting my pap done and it scared the crap out of me had to get tests done again and then every 6months after.
-1	My friend had a problem that when he woke up in the morning he felt tired and fell a sleep at work. I asked him if he  snored and had high blood pressure and he said yes. I mentioned that he should be tested for sleep apnea which he was and now uses a cpap, just like me. 
1	I have had struggles with bronchitis before and after the first diagnosis I know exactly when I am going to get a flare up based on how I feel. I know when to look for my chest to rattle, and when to address instead of panicking early on.
1	Virtually anytime I ever had to see a specialist or went to a new medical facility, I needed to always fill out a series of forms. I have never been in a situation where I did not understand the information I need to fill in. 
-1	I learned some nutrition from my doctor. I was told to eat an apple before fatty meals . The fiber from the apple binds to fat.
1	I was trying to eat a very healthy diet and started to have weird symptoms. I researched the symptoms and discovered that they correlated with insufficient calorie intake. I evaluated my diet and realized that I wasn't eating enough, especially enough fats, realized that I met the criteria for a diagnosis of EDNOS that was in the most current DSM at the time, and changed my diet to better reflect my caloric needs. 
1	I gave birth to a child. Before and after that there was not much else regarding medical issues, but that taught me a lot.
1	Knowing what the side effects are of a medicine and being able to identify those sided effects occurring. When they occurred I presented my findings to my doctor and switched to a different med.
1	During the Ebola crisis I had a lot of coworkers freaking out over getting Ebola. I had to tell them constantly that there was hardly any chance that they or anybody they knew would get it. Very hard to contract and even if it was in america the people would be quarantined. At the end of the whole thing nobody died.
1	I was given a course of antibiotics to take for 20 days.  Even though I felt better after 3 days I continued taking the medication because I knew the bacteria may still be present even though I was no longer feeling the symptoms and stopping early could increase the chances of creating a drug resistant form of the bacteria.
-1	I am 41 with three kids. I have a mother who gets sick, my grand parents who have been in an out, and those who i interact with on facebook., My knowledge of medical is really based on what i have had explained to me within those visits. I use to enjoy watching medical shows like ER, because I feel like I was able to learn something. 
1	I can read instructions for a medicine and use it as directed. I can correctly measure temperature and blood pressure. I can count calories. I can calculate percepts. 
-1	I went to a doctor because i had a lump at my side. it was the size of a marble and it was black in color compare to my lighter carmel complexion. it was painful to touch and i could not lay down on that side of my body.  The doctor told me it was just fat tissue when she felt it and said she could do minor surgery and remove it by cutting it out. I told her i'll decide if to do surgery to remove it. I did my own research online based on signs and symptoms and the swelling turned out to be a acne cyst. I look up treatment for cyst and treat the problem myself. the pain disappeared and the swelling went down flat.
-1	when i get a cold i know that things to do to get myself well. i know the foods to eat. i know to rest and what medicines to buy.
1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy. My daughter-in-law is a neurologist specializing in epilepsy. She has been my back-up with MRI's, meds, dosage and general care I have learned more about my problem through my Dr's and here to keep current on my problem..
1	I began experiencing severe coldness in my fingers of my left hand, to the point where the digits turned blue and dark purple (even when I was indoors at 65 degrees). This progressed to affect my nose, left foot toes, and sometimes my nipples, with severe episodes causing my fingerils to develop waves and my fingers to develop painful lesions that scarred. I researched and figured out that I have Rayud's syndrome and that constriction in my blood vessels was likely due to stress, cold temperatures, etc. Through diet and exercise, I have reduced the number of episodes that I have. 
-1	I kept having very severe reactions after eating certain types of food or consuming certain drinks. It was very painful, like being punched in the stomach from the inside. I suspected it had to do with my being sensitive to the acid content of what I had and it could be acid reflux. I went to my doctor and sure enough, my suspicions were correct. 
1	I am overweight and I am always told that I probably have diabetes before they ever test me. They always just assume and I tell them every time that I don't. I do not have any of the common symptoms of diabetes besides the fact that I am overweight. In the end they are always shocked that I turn out to be right and that diabetes is not the problem.
1	Years ago I had problems with my stomach. Based on the symptoms, I was pretty sure that I knew what the problem was. After double checking online, I was even more sure, so I went to the doctor. It turns out that I was right and the doctor let me know that it was good that I came in when I did, so he was able to help me.
1	When I spilled ravioli on my arm, I was able to identify the burn as a second-degree burn and I knew that I shouldn't put a cotton bandage directly on the burn because that could result in harm to my skin. I ran my arm under cool water, took ibuprofen, applied an antibiotic cream, and bandaged the burn loosely to prevent infection.
1	I have borderline high cholesterol.  Although the doctor did not go into detail with me about my cholesterol levels, I understand the relationship between HDL and LDL and triglycerides to know that my high cholesterol reading is not necessarily alarming.  I also understand what I need to do to improve my cholesterol reading and independently (without medication) took some measures that lowered my cholesterol level by 11 points over a year.
1	Being able to basically consult my direct family and tell them when to get what medication and when to see a doctor demonstrates my knowledge of health and medical issues, Sometimes I feel very informed even though it may be basic knowledge.
-1	When I was 18 I was told I might have cervical cancer. When I when to see my obgyn to get tested I did my research so as he was going through the orocudur I was able to ask more in depth questions
1	I was doing some cleaning and lifting heavy objects when I felt something in my stomach and groin area, I thought maybe I pulled a muscle, but then a bit later I noticed a bulge in my groin. I did some research online and found out that it was most likely an inguil hernia. I went to my doctor and he confirmed my suspicions. 
1	I have basic math skills that help me understand these statistics and I have general knowledge of basic health issues.
-1	I am the only one in my household who have knowledge of health issue i have to take care my 11 years daughter, father and mother in law who have parkinson's, blood pressure, diabeties and prostate. alwyas i ahve to go doctors for them to consult. their medication etc.
-1	I have asthma and allergies which causes me alot of medical issues. I have done research on taking care of these issues.
1	i honestly dont know what to put here, i dont feel ive ever shown something like this in a significant way
1	My child had been ill with a fever, random usea and fatigue. After the fever and usea had passed, he was still extremely fatigued and had swollen glands. Even though I had never known anyone to experience it, I suspected mono since this was unusual for him to be so tired. He had bloodwork done and he was in fact infected with mono.
1	Taking a drug for ADHD required me to understand the health risks associated with an amphetamine.  I had to understand percentage and probability risks for things like heart attack due to chest pains and irregularities.
1	When my father died.
-1	Changes in the body which are not pleasant
1	My wife was rushed to the hospital in extreme pain. She was worried it was something serious. The area that was in pain and her symptoms lead me to believe she had a hernia or cyst that was causing the pain. After she was admitted it turned out it was a cyst that cause the pain. It was nothing serious as I kept telling her. 
1	I don't have any particular knowledge of health or medical issues. The only incident that comes to minds is that the last time I had an infection requiring oral antibiotics, I was very aware of the necessity of following through on taking the entire prescription even though my symptoms were greatly diminished.
1	I haven't had many situations in which I needed to be able to demonstrate knowledge if medical issues. Both of my parents passed away from cancer and I did gain some knowledge of that process at that time. 
1	No experience with this type of medical issues
1	I'm not sure I can think of one. My cat was diabetic  so I had to give him insulin and when he went into kidney failure I gave him fluids so I understand the technical process but I don't feel I have a proper understanding of the actual disease.
1	I sometimes discuss my friend's medical condition with them. I will pass along information I have confirmed with my doctor.
1	
1	I felt that I was going to faint after I had spent a long time standing up in a particularly hot office. I had had similar experiences  before, and had researched the subject of the vasovagal response and the best action to take in that situation. I quickly got to the ground, elevated my legs, and tensed my leg muscles as I had researched.  As a result, I didn't faint and was able to stand up again and resume work shortly afterwards.
-1	The most important experience was when I took my state board exams for my PTA license. I had to be well versed in medical terminology as well as diseases and the causes and treatment for each one. Most important was knowing what muscle controls what part of the body. 
-1	I worked as a medical transcriptionist in the radiology department at my local hospital. I had to type doctor's dictations regarding patient x-rays, MRI's, CT scans, and ultrasounds. I learned about a lot of health and medical issues from typing these reports, such as broken bones, spine or joint conditions, and many types of cancer.
-1	When I had my first heart attack I was in really bad shape. When I got out I was given all of these different types of exercises to follow every day in order to keep me in tact with my health.  It was difficult to keep up with. I had to get family to help me out with my schedule.  I learned so much during this trial about things I didnt even know about my own body and health. 
-1	i   got knowledge through friends  and relations health problems
1	It really breaks down to being able to do math cause so much of it is based on a percentages. 
-1	My children had fevers reading over 100. I knew this was no cause for concern because infant temperatures often read higher and to watch their behavior and stools instead for any inconsistencies.
1	Most of my knowledge of health issues would have to be because of my husband who has several of the health issues that you listed in your examples/questions above. He has diabetes, high cholesterol, has had stints put in twice and was diagnosed with prostate cancer, high blood pressure and others. He doesn't fit the norm for most of these, not overweight, gets plenty of exercise and is active, etc. So I have learned quite a bit through his treatments and issues. 
1	A couple of years ago, I had some kind of a bump on my upper leg. It kind of freaked me out, not knowing what it was and how it developed. But instead of worrying too much about it and running to the doctor I just watched it to see if it began to hurt or get bigger. I didn't want to scare myself or my family too much about it so I just waited. I also didn't look anything up online, knowing that that would only make me much more anxious and scared. Eventually, it went away, as I believe it was just from stress or something.
1	Family members with cancer, and a mother with a very odd medical history, mostly unexplained.
1	When I eat and want to figure out how many calories I ate I can calculate that easily . 
-1	I was diagnosed late in life with beta thalassemia minor; up until that time I had always been considered anemic but no one ever considered the cause.  With my current doctor he asks for blood tests every 6 months.  Every time he discusses the results with me he gets concerned about the anemia.  Every single time I have to remind him that it is the thalassemia minor which is NOT treatable, especially not with iron supplements.
1	When my father was still around, he tripped over a shovel in the backyard. he couldn't get up, so he called me with his cell phone. I only lived about 10 minutes away so i drove over and entered through the backyard. his ankle was swollen pretty badly. So I helped him up and brought him inside. I knew we probably had to take him to the hospital to get it checked out, but him being a stubborn old man, he refused. I had him sit in a chair and brought another chair over so he could elevate his leg. I put a pillow under his foot and taped an ice pack around his ankle. We them argued for about 15 minutes about going to the doctor and I eventually convinced him to talk to an advise nurse. The advice nurse told him to elevate his leg and keep it iced. If it didn't improve within a half hour, to come in to be checked. 3 hours pass and nothing improved, so I eventually got him to agree to go to the hospital.
-1	I guess when I was talking to my husband about diabetes. My father has it, so I was able to tell him about my dad's condition with an above basic level of understanding.
1	I have some friends in the medical field and have helped my family with their persol health.  This has allowed me to become more familiar with different types of health matters and working with various areas of health care system.
-1	questioning my physician regularly
1	I have a masters degree in occupatiol therapy and work in a hospital setting.
1	I have persolly been through two surgeries, one was an adenoidectomy and the second was to remove my gall bladder. My sister is also a nurse and we have discussed different medical issues. I also remember my experiences with my grandmother and her fight against cancer and diabetes.
1	My fiance had 3 strokes in 3 weeks in March of 2017. Fortutely, I was aware of the warning signs, and got her help before things got too out of hand. I've also helped her with her other medical issues, so I know what meds to go for when she has a problem.
-1	i think just going to the doctor all these years and listineing to her has really educated me in so many things but i google a lot of symptons too and learn a lot fron the internet web md
1	This is kind of a hard question to answer. I have never had any serious medical issues persolly. I have extensive knowledge of many issues my father had prior to his death. He was a diabetic, along with the majority of his siblings and mother. I know that there could be a high probability that I could acquire diabetes myself if I don't take care of my body by watching what I eat and exercising  regularly.
1	I had blood work done and my glucose level was 130. My doctor was worried that this was elevated. I explained I had just eaten shortly before my blood work. I asked if there was a reading on my A1C. My A1C was checked and not a cause for concern. I had my glucose re-tested later that week and it was below 100.
-1	I would get tested with how these things are done and how people were doing and making sure that these things can work
1	I like helping people figure out the dosage recommended of a specific medicine and also look up symptoms to try and diagnose an ailment. 
1	When my daughter was born she has SVT, which essentially was a hole in her heart that led to an elevated blood pressure.  She had to spend the first three days in the NICU, take medicine once a day for a year, and see the cardiologist once a week.  
-1	I had come out of surgery, was drugged up on morphine, and woke up to see that I had another person's me on my wrist band.  Local TV had a news story that said to always check the me asap.  It might have saved my life.
-1	I've had CPR training through the red cross. I had to help a child I was watching when she choked on a mint.
1	Once I was in the woods when I fell and cut myself badly on the thigh. I was able to use my belt as a tourniquet. I cared a small pack with some medical supplies. Once the bleeding was stopped, I sanitized the wound with alcohol then applied some crazy glue to close the wound at the surface. I slowly made my way from the woods to my car while loosening the tourniquet every fifteen minutes or so to prevent further injury to my leg. 
1	When I was a young child my little brother had chicken pox. My parent didn't speak English that well so I filled the medical form for them.
-1	I suppose helping a friend who's wife was pregnt as I had gone through the same thing a year prior.
-1	When the doctors told me I have a leaky heart valve they explained to me that my heart was pumping some of the blood backwards, or regurgitating. 
-1	The time that I had IVF's.  I learned a lot about difficulty of having a baby.
1	It is difficult to say but I have a certification in CPR, I exercise regularly, received all my vaccitions because I believe in them.
-1	I was diagnosed with Crohn's Disease so I researched it which led me to know that there is no cure for it.  Doctors still don't know what caused it.  People get it in their 20s.  There is a class of drugs called 5-ASAs which are prescribed for maintence of my condition.  I'm taking Lialda, which is a 5-ASA, to reduce flareups of Crohn's Disease.
-1	I went through many years of doctor's trying to figure out a mysterious illness that I had. After some time, I decided to start doing some research on my own. I was able to come up with something that I thought fit my symptoms very well and was able to find a few doctors who agreed with me and gave me an official diagnosis. 
1	One day my mother told me she was having severe stomach pain.  The pain happened when her stomach was more empty.  Drinking milk relieved the pain.  I had heard of this and told her to go to the doctor and tell them she probably has an ulcer and needed some antibiotics.  She did that and came home with the antibiotics.  Her stomach pain went away for several years before flaring up again.  
1	I went to the doctor who was having a hard time explaining the pain I was feeling in my breast but I was able to help him articulate what he was trying to say. We laughed about it afterwards. He was a newer doctor.
1	I didn't have insurance and I had an abscess in my mouth where a tooth had decayed.  I ended up treating it with fish antibiotics.  This did the trick as I felt better in 2 days (but continued to take the antibiotics for a week).  A few weeks later I got the rest of the tooth removed at a dental school on the cheap.  But yeah I knew what to do in that instant without going to the emergency room and getting a huge bill and prescription I couldn't afford.
-1	"The first time my husband and I were expecting a baby, we found out that we had lost her at 13 weeks.  I was scheduled to have a D & C at the end of the week on Friday, but began to bleed on Wednesday.  The doctor had me come into the hospital to have a D & C on Wednesday evening.  On Friday, the doctor had me come back to the office for a check up.  I asked if I had been given RhoGam (since I have A+ blood) and was told I was not.   The day I was seen was right before the office was going to close for the Easter weekend.  Had I not asked about the RhoGam and had they not rushed to filly give it to me, the 72 hour would have been missed due to the Easter break.  This doctor knew my blood type but ""forgot"" to give me RhoGam until I asked for it!"
1	I used to have to help my grandmother often with her diabetes issues so I am familiar with what most people typically have to do. One day while I was at work, an older coworker of mine started to feel faint because of low blood sugar. I was able to get her something to eat and helped her restore her blood sugar levels back to normal.
1	This one here has; it's likely shown how inept I am at math.
-1	When I had a bunch of fertility tests done. I had to go over everything from my cholesterol to vitamin deficiencies. 
1	My son had a sore throat recently.  He had the sniffles due to allergies and I thought that was the issue at first, but when I took a flashlight and looked at his throat, it was very raw.  Also, he was running a low grade fever.  I knew it must be strep.  Sure enough, the doctor confirmed it.  
-1	I have had a lot of UTI and kidney issues over the years. i was diagnosed with a UTI a few years back and took medication for it but i didn't feel that was right and kept researching my symptoms. Everything was pointing to stones and a few days later i passed a kidney stone. I learned all about the causes, effects, and preventatives to kidney stones
1	"I guess I would have to say one of the million or so times I had to deal with medical situations with raising three sons.  Looking back, it seems like one or the other of them was always hurt or sick!  They did keep me on my ties.  if we had ran to the doctor every time they ""stubbed a toe"", I would still be paying off doctor bills."
1	I have worked in a parasitology lab.  This has given me the knowledge to know the symptoms of various parasitic diseases as well as the ability to positively identify various blood stage parasites in blood smear. 
1	My mother had an inner ear infection that led to an absess in her brain. She was hospitalized with quite a few surgeries, and spend a couple of months in rehabilitation. There were several doctors explaining several things over the course of her treatment and recovery. 
1	My son has minor asthma symptons so I did some research and ended up understanding the causes and treatments.  There was a time when my son was having some chest pains and having a hard time breathing.  I couldn't find his inhaler so I had him stand in front of the freezer where I learned that the cool air helps with the breathing.  
1	One experience I had that showed my knowledge of health issues was dealing with the hospital when I had a kidney stone. It took 8 visits to get them to listen to me, and search what should have been the first step. I knew they were wrong, and being neglectful, so I pressed them further, and made them do their jobs.
1	I actually had a bacterial infection in my lungs and had went to a doctor who claimed it was a cold. I tried telling him I had no symptoms of a cold and he would not budge and told me to get some Robitussin or something similar. I ended up going to ER where I was diagnosed with a bacterial infection and receive the proper anti bacterial  medicine and within  two days the cough started to subside. Most Dr's just don't bother to spend the time anymore to ask and simply generalize what they think it is based on whatever may be widespread at the time as opposed to your symptoms.
1	I was quite athletic when I was growing up. Did a lot of weight training and exercise physiology. When I injured myself and had to go to physical therapy. Everything that the therapist was talking about made perfect sense to me, and the verbiage and actual motions used during the exercises were all ready within my muscle memory.
1	I just listen to what my doctor tells me.  If I don't understand, i just ask questions.  I saw my doctor, last week for a check up.  this applies then.  I have no real knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I just do a lot of research. I read a lot of books on medicine, illnesses and the medical profession and ethics. I watch a lot of documentaries on the topic also and my mother was a nurse.  
1	I was able to take a basic health class and passed it with a high grade, as well I have learned CPR and basic nutrition. I am able to take my own blood pressure and keep records of it and take my basic vital signs.
1	I helped my mother through a breast cancer fight and pallative care for pancreatic cancer.
1	I felt congested and had pain in my chest.  I could feel it when I inhaled.  There was a gurgling sound.  I went to the doctor and told him I had pneumonia.  He said he'd be the judge of that.  When the x-rays came back.  He agreed.
1	I have ran many marathons successfully and taken care of all recovery that had to do with it without any outside help.
1	My friend had recently had recently had a miscarriage and was having problems afterwards that was effecting her work and home life. I suggested that she might have reactive depression which is something that can happen after a miscarriage. She went to see a doctor and he confirmed I was correct. He put her on some medication and she saw a therapist which real he helped her get back to her usual self.
1	"I recently learned I have the MTHFR genetic defect from both parents (homozygous). I researched the genetic mutation issue and came to understand that my body does not ""methylize"" properly. In particular, my ability to convert folate to a useble form is compromised by about 70%. This has an effect on the efficiency of many methylation and detox pathways in my body. This also means I am more suspectible to certain health issues (fertility issues, depression, heart and vascular disease, Parkinson's). Some experts believe there are dietary and nutritiol options that can help to offset some of the effects of the ""mutation."" I am pretty well versed in what they are at this point."
1	I have never had an experience like this before. 
-1	when I was having an extremely hard time breathing I knew something was wrong, I went to the hospital and discovered that I had two PE's in my right lung. I knew it was more than my asthma and I knew it was in my right lung.
1	My daughter has had recurring fevers over the last few years. We've been to our pediatrician and specialists multiple times trying to discover the cause. It's led me to do significant research on auto-inflammatory syndromes, comparing her symptoms to those of the various recognized disorders. While certainly not a doctor, I feel fairly knowledgeable on auto-inflammatory disorders as a result.
1	Recently I've seen that I have more health problems if I sleep less, and my health is better if I sleep more.  So I've been trying to sleep more because sometimes if I sleep less my ear starts hurting.
1	"I've been dealing with back pain for a while (over a few years) so throughout my pain 'journey' i have researched anything from sciatica, plantar fasciitis (which caused this whole thing from the beginning) as well as knowing different terminology for my symptoms as well as the body parts...like explaining to my (new) chiropractor and/or physical therapist which part of my body that are having problems and what kind of exercises i've done. I actually have gone to my doctor at one point (for a follow up visit) and he started our conversation with ""So, what did your online research find?"" and after I explained what I've found he confirmed yes/no on what I read and it was quite a good and efficient meeting."
1	I was feeling a shortness of breath. The doctor thought I was having an asthma attack but here it was just because I had not excericsed in a while and this was catching up to me. I had to slowly bring my excercise up rather than jump in right away.
1	when my husband had to have surgery i had to help him fill out the paperwork and try to explain to him when was going to happen and how i would take care of him
1	A close friend developed high blood pressure and prediabetes. Doctors put him on medication that he didn't want to take, and they gave him a (truly) lousy diet and exercise program that would've ensured he stayed on the meds forever. I cleaned up his diet, got him on a sensible training program, and now he doesn't need to take any medication.
1	My exposure to medical topics began when I was very young. I grew up on a dairy farm and when I was about 10 I started helping the vet when they came to do herd checks, etc. I have worked in hospitals as a med tech in the ED and lab so I am very comfortable around it when I am not the patient. In my late 20s I was diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis and that was when things began to go downhill health-wise. I had to learn a lot about autoimmune diseases and honestly believe if I hadn't fired my docs at the end of 1999, I would be dead now.
1	I play basketball a lot. I was also interested in sports medicine. I have twisted my ankle numerous times over the years. My knowledge on how to treat sprains was an asset to me. 
-1	I have completed a c program several years ago, I have also taken a medical terminology course and enjoy medical tv shows.
1	Several years ago I had a problem with my left shoulder. I would feel intense pain in my shoulder when I would to certain motions, but at other times it was not a problem. I thought it was shoulder impingement syndrome. I knew about this because two of my birding friends had the same problem and talked to me about it and the symptoms and the physical therapy treatments for it. So when it happened to me I thought I knew what it was right away. When I went to the doctor (who is NOT the same doctor I have now) he sent me to an orthopedic surgeon who confirmed that. But I already knew what it was, I just wanted to get the referral to start the physical therapy. I wish my doctor had listened to me more carefully and had given me the referral himself because I would have started treatment two weeks earlier.
1	My friend told me about a disorder they had called celiac disease and I already knew quite a lot about the disorder. 
-1	My blood pressure was high. I began to eat better and exercise. When it remained high, I talked to my doctor and started blood pressure meds.
-1	a coworker complained of have the worst sore throat he had ever had i told him he need to get that checked out because if strep  is left unchecked it can damage the heart  he went to the doctor and he had strep
1	When my mother was diagnosed as diabetic, we were told to limit her carb intake. I spent time reading several guides given to me by her doctor and attending two classes given by a registered dietitian. Through diet and medication, we were able to lower her fasting glucose levels significantly.
1	My mom had ALS.  We cared for her at home for 10 years with nursing help during the day.  She was non ambulatory. She was on a ventilator and feeding tube for the majority of that time. I knew how to administer her medication and feed her, change her catheter, change out vent tubing, suction her throat.  She needed total care.  I could care for her myself when we did not have a nurse.  
1	My niece called me and asked about symptoms she was having. I had a good idea of what could be wrong. I told her it was my best guess and that she should see the doctor. It turned out my educated guess was correct.
1	I had leg swelling, and red blotches above my ankles, so I went to a clinic that open.  The doctor there told me that I had cellulitis, but I didn't think so because there was too much pain involved.  I decided to go the hospital ER and get a different opinion.  After the results of the tests, I was informed that I had three blood clots in my outer vein.  I was given antibiotics and a list of doctors to see for the recommended surgery.
-1	I get migraines so it's interesting to see what causes it 
1	Sometimes the math of medicine is a little bit confusing and you have to be very careful not to make any mistakes.
1	I was able to lose weight a few years ago when I realized that I needed to. I lost about 30 pounds, which was my goal. I accomplished this weight loss by avoiding junk food, eating more fruits and vegetables, and walking every day. I still follow these healthy routines so I can stay fit and healthy.
1	When my son broke his hand and required surgery I needed to be able to understand the doctor as well as the aftercare, etc.  
1	I did my own research on some skin conditions. After successful application of ointments I discovered during my research I felt quite competent about self-treatment of those skin conditions.
1	I cant think of any one specific incident.  There have been a few times I have administered first aid like the heimlich maneuver or recognized someone needed to go to the hospital because of a fever or difficulty breathing, etc.
-1	I worked in the service as a nurse aid and learned a lot about the basics
1	I was trying to figure out my results from a blood test.  Much of the information was abbreviated or included terms I was not used to, so I would use the internet to look up the definitions to help determine the results.
-1	I suffer from high blood pressure and obesity I have to monitor everything.
1	There hasn't really been just one significant experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health and medical issues. There's just small things that I do to alleviate or resolve medical issues that pop up. For example, I take apple cider vinegar for my indigestion because I know that I have low stomach acid. And I take frequent breaks and move around to prevent my sciatica nerve from acting up.
-1	I care for my mother moderately. She is independent and usually takes care of herself but doesn't have information on important health facts. One afternoon she described to me how she had had difficulties pouring her coffee, she explained how she had to hold one arm with the other to even lift minimally. I insist recognized the symptoms of stroke. We went to the ER where they did find she had a stroke.
1	I had two C-sections. Once when I was 23 and one when I was 27. After the first one I tried to look up a lot more information about C-sections and surgery in general, because I figured I would need another C-section with my second child. I was a lot more informed by the time I had my second C-section, which made the process a lot easier and more comforting for me. I knew what was about to happen, so I did not have to worry as much as I did with the first C-section.
1	I don't know a lot about health or medical issues.  When I have questions I refer to professiols or any other reliable source of information.
1	I found out I have Restless Legs Syndrome a few years ago. My doctor had some recommendations, but I did a bit of my own research and found out that low-normal levels of ferritin (stored iron) can exacerbate it. I was then able to follow up with the doctor and get a ferritin test, and confirmed that I should reduce my frequency of doting blood and take an iron supplement when I do. That helped reduce the intensity of my RLS symptoms.
1	I can comprehend health materials as I am very good in science and math. I always look at ways to reduce my risk.
-1	I was not feeling well one day and could not figure out what was going on. So I went online and pulled up WebMD and searched for all the symptoms I was having and was able to rrow it down to 2 possible things. In doing this I was able to give my doctor a better account of what I was going through.
1	The increasing pain, stiffness and swelling in my big toes and ankles was an indicator that I had a problem with arthritis, since it was persistent but fluctuated in intensity depending on the weather, not due to trauma or recent injury, and consistent with the development of arthritis in my aunt when she reached the age I'm at now.
-1	When I had my spil cord tumor I did a lot of research.It has come in handy with  neurologists I have seen over the years.For the fact some are just not experienced with that type of tumor.I have probably taught them a thing or two.
1	Getting preventive care and treatment.  Understanding the blood work data, the colonoscopy and all related.  To be able to know what I needed to improve on and to watch.
1	When I was told I had high cholesterol not only did I understand the changes I would have to make I also further researched the issue to make sure I was on the best diet and treatment possible and brought up with my doctor a couple of concerns I had. I was proactive in trying to understand this issue and with work, I did.
-1	I told my mother to get a flu vaccine as I knew it was helpful.
-1	I am learning about health and medical issues every day. I have several medical problems that I see a doctor about monthly and I frequently have to go to specialists for this test or that.
1	My children will frequently get sick, and my two year old recently had a slight fever of 99.6, but I simply gave him some over the counter Tylenol, and made sure he stayed hydrated with water and Gatorade. My six year old had the same conditions of fever, vomiting, and diarrhea. I knew it was probably a virus, and did not feel it was necessary to take him to the doctor for it.
-1	I received training as a home health aid and participated in certifications such as CPR and First Aid training.
1	Once I remember seeing a medical category on Jeoparody!, the game show. I think I got almost every answer.
1	Not sure if this is what you are looking for but true story. A few years ago I experienced severe pain in my feet that lasted for weeks. I looked up the symptoms and was reasobly sure it was something called plantar fasciitis (sp?). It HURT. I went to my doctor and he agreed with my assessment. Unfortutely there doesn't seem to be an effective treatment other than stretching and not walking (or walking as little as possible) for many months to allow the muscles in the foot to heal. Near the end of the appointment my doctor offered me a shot of cortisone for the pain. I was surprised and promptly refused. The problem with the cortisone shot, in my opinion, is that it simply masks the pain and might lead me to overdo it during a time when I needed to rest, thus making the injury worse instead of better. It took over a year for the problem to go away. Even though I suffered through the pain I feel I made the right choice because the cortisone shot might have made the recovery last even longer!
-1	I saw him live with my mom
1	After having a stress test done I am now informed about all the risks and causes of heart attack and stroke. I had a false positive stress test, but I feel that I have gained a lot of knowledge associated with the heart. Now I have a lot of knowledge and useful information to help take care of my heart and help my family take care of theirs.
1	I studied and researched and read a lot about different forms of birth control before I went to my OBGyn and talked about the best method for me. I think she was impressed that I was so knowledgeable. 
-1	Someone close to me started to freak out about a bump in their buttocks--from persol experience--that sounds like hemorrhoids. I was quite surprised that she was freaking out about such a thing, but it indeed turned out to be hemorrhoids. Another one that comes to mind is that a friend said he had abdomil issues and other related symptoms of appendicitis--I only thought of it because I did some research myself in fear of having it. When he went to his Doctor, it turns out I was correct.
-1	I was given a choice to get a flu shot I was told of all the side effects and I decided to get it.  Later I felt awful.  I called the doctor he stated that it happens sometimes.  I should just drink a lot of fluids and rest.
-1	when my boyfriend was complaining about symptoms in his hands, i suggested that he had carpal tunnel. i knew this because my mom had similar issues with her hand/wrist and it was very likely carpal tunnel. he went to the doctor and he indeed had carpal tunnel. 
1	I have a family with a medical background on both sides of the clipboard.  This survey is mostly simple math.
1	Knowledge of my medical condition has helped me to avoid putting myself in a situation where I would be endangered. I know that I will put myself at risk if I do certain things that would increase my heart rate. I also need to slowly raise my health level through proper eating and strengthening myself to make my heart work less. Therefore by overhauling my nutrition and by avoiding those situations I have demonstrated knowledge of health issues. 
1	My family has a long history of medical issues, primarily autoimmune diseases. It has been imperative we stay as healthy as possible as many doctors are not knowledgeable in this field. Treatment is typically left to us and in several cases had better medical knowledge been obtained, lives would have been extended. One family member was lost due to a medical mistake, another to incorrect diagnoses, and another has had quality of life severely impaired because of incorrect diagnoses. I struggle with my own health and have two children with a complex medical history. I have also become the primary caregiver to my mother who is now severely impaired. If I am not fully aware and knowledgeable then the risks are simply too great. It's worth it to me to learn and understand all that I possibly can.  
1	I am working to lower my A1C count due to being pre-diabetic along with trying to lower my cholesterol. I am exercising and cutting back on sweets. I am also cutting back on my fat intake. I have been working on this for the past 5 months. I will be tested again in one month. I have read many articles and talked with my doctor regarding these tests.
-1	I spent a half a year researching if I had diabetes or not.  I found out a lot of things that contributed to diabetes, so I lost weight and balanced out my hormones. I also looked into people who reversed diabetes.  This saved me from the disease. 
1	An experience in my life that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I researched an upcoming procedure for my husband and got information about it and gave him suggestions as to things to bring up with his doctor.
1	One of my coworkers sees the same doctor as I do.  She was telling me about a recent visit and had a question about some of her blood work.  I was able to answer her questions because I had experience in similar blood work.
1	I helped to take care of my diabetic brother when he was little. I had to use nutritiol labels to determine how many carbs he had eaten and then figure out how many units of insulin he needed to take. 
-1	When I was in health class and gave a presentation on joints and arthritis.
-1	Never
1	It was a time in summer, when one of my friend started feeling dizziness while playing in sun. We helped him to get him under the shadow and had him drank some water and after that he was felling better.
1	When I helped a family member that had very serious issues I took the family member to all the medical appointments and stayed in the hospital through all the surgeries with them.  I don't know if that demonstrates knowledge but I learned a lot of knowledge doing it I think.
1	My mother was having back problems, anemia and hair loss. The doctors didn't know what was wrong. I did my own research and asked the doctor to test for a genetic condition that was not common in our racial group . The doctor agreed to run the test and it turns out, my mother had the condition, also so do I.
1	Once when visiting a doctor I was asked if I understood everything and explained everything correctly to my doctor.
-1	When I was diagnosis with cerebellar ataxia.  I never heard of this disorder nor did anybody I know.  I have done a lot of research over the past five years including a couple facebook groups.
-1	just what i eat and looking at labels. trying to stay within the 2k calorie of a daily intake of food and try to eat more healthy.
1	I have chronic shoulder pain that has been worsening for 25 years.  I know nothing can be done except pain pills.  I do not take them because I know I might become addicted.
1	One time I was stabbed in the. Because I knew that it had hit one of the main arteries I new to go to the hospital immediatley.
-1	I have moderate experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I am somewhat confident.
1	I had a colonoscopy at 32, that showed and removed several polyps, two pre-cancerous. I was told to have a repeat colonoscopy every 3 years, even though my 2nd generation family has a genetic defect that causes a greater, aggressive risk, and the fact that I was only 32. I researched the subject and decided to have one every year. Good thing, because for the next eight years, they always found some. Now I have one every three, if they don't find anything.
1	"I found a mole on my back that met some, but not all aspects of looking suspicious. When I brought it up to my PC doc,  but he wasn't really convinced.  I had to insist on a derm referral,  because I was fairly certain based on my research that the markers it did have meant it was bad. I did get the referral and the derm took one look at it and said,  yep that's coning of today. Though it eventually turned out to be ""really weird"" but not cancer,  i still felt I made the right call by insisting. "
1	I had a class in college that medical questions such as these on this survey. I did pretty well in that class. I was able to finish with a 87 in the class.
1	I took my mother to a health clinic to have them look at a problem she was having with her foot. there was a sign on the wall telling people they should report when they have been outside the country. I asked the doctor why weren't they interested when and if people traveled to Florida and may have been bitten by a mosquito. she agreed that that would be a good idea, but I doubt they printed up new posters or asked anyone then or now
1	I was able to successfully perform the Heimlich maneuver for a gentleman that needed my help.  I was able to successfully pass CPR courses which demonstrates knowledge of medical issues.
1	When I had a job working with kids for the city. I was able to tell when some of the kids were sick.
1	Just having minor health issues throughout my life I have learned to tell the minor from the major issues. The advent of the internet has also made information more accessible and readily available.
1	I found my mother passed out on the toilet.  I knew there was something about pressure on the vagus nerve that could make you pass out.  I remembered she needs to get blood to her head so I put her head down.  She came to a little and we were able to get her to lay on the bed.  Then she became totally awake and  responsive.  We still went to the emergency room, but she was fine.
1	As a medical professiol, my everyday experiences are  a constant testament of my medical expertise and knowledge given my involvement in patient care. 
-1	when i noticed symptoms in one of my friends and told him to see a doctor 
-1	I have endometriosis and had some of my female organs removed but some were left in me. I was able to recognize the signs and symptoms of the endometriosis flaring up and getting worse on my own and was able to make an appointment and my doctor confirmed I was correct. 
1	My brother has type I diabetes. He recently came to visit and in the morning he was unresponsive. I knew that his blood sugar must be low because he was incoherent and combative. I called 911 and when the paramedics arrived I explained what had happened and they were able to quickly check his blood sugar and give him a glucose drip to bring it back up. 
1	My experience is based on news stories, persol experiences, family experiences, now outdated first aid courses, and college biology. I have used my knowledge to determine when I or a family members need to go to a doctor or emergency room and to reassure and explain  information to my niece and nephew. 
-1	I had a doctor present to me various things about my check up. I understood what my blood pressure was and things like that. Just had a good common awareness of the information.
1	Being pregnt and giving birth to my children gave me good experiences with medical fields and medical documentation. 
1	"I'm not really terribly interested in ""wet"" sciences. Because, frankly, ""Eww."" I understand what I read and I don't leave the health of my children to chance, but I don't go out of my way to seek out new medical knowledge."
1	i have been around the medical field for about 20 years, but when it comes to being a patient i am like a novice. it is very hard for me to process being sick, i mostly have denial over it. as far as knowledge, i now a lot about health from working in health related fields.
1	I would get strep throat regularly in the past. I don't exhibit the common symptoms associated with it, but I knew I had it. I made the doctor take a culture. It confirmed strep. The next time I had it, I opted to NOT take antibiotics, stay home for 3 days with lots of hydrations and Advil to keep my fever down. My hopes were to get over it and build a tolerance to it. It worked and I have not had strep throat in the decade since. Most recently, after breaking out with a skin rash of sorts, I figured out it was dyshidrotic eczema and went to the doctor. Without me telling her what I thought it was, she diagnosed it the same. This has also happened with a less common diagnosis of Bells Palsy and other issues.
1	I don't know much about the medical issues I have before I'm dealing with them in the hospital. I've had an infected foot that I didn't know how to treat or take care of and it got out of hand and landed me in the hospital. 
1	I was told that a hysterectomy was necessary for fibroids.  I knew this was not accurate information.  Based on my own research and listening to doctors who specialized in this area.
1	I was a Medicare Specialist customer service rep for an insurance company.  I was frequently in contact with Doctor's offices and hospitals to help a patient seek clarification on diagnosis, coverages, prior authorizations, appeals, etc.
1	When I had my second child I knew quite a bit about HG which is extreme morning sickness that I had had with my first.  With my second I knew how to handle it better and knew what I needed to do to keep it under control.  
-1	My sister is training to be a nurse so I have some kind of history with medical knowledge
1	I once had an experience of helping someone who sustained a leg injury.  I was able to provide a support mechanism for the leg until the ambulance came.
1	When I had my wrist surgery last year. I have a rare wrist condition and I was able to interpret several medical jourl entries on kienbocks disease.
1	I have learned about different things from the internet. That way I know whether something will pass quickly or if I should go to the doctors. Thus, I haven't had to go to the doctors in years.
-1	My sister has epilepsy. I have gotten her through many seizures while waiting for an ambulance to show up. She had one seizure that was really bad once and i turned her on her side and held her until the shaking stopped and she started to wake up right as the ambulance got there.
-1	After having a child I gained over fifty pounds, because of this weight and family history of diabetes I knew that it was important for my mental and physical health to eat healthy and exercise.
1	A dentist was wanting to do serial extractions on my son.  I was worried about the wrong teeth getting pulled.  I got online and printed out diagrams of teeth labeled with numbers and letters, then I double and triple checked with the hygienist to make sure everything would get done right.
1	I was hiking with a friend and he fell down the hill and broke his leg. I was able to make a splint for him to keep his leg still and I kept him hydrated until help arrived.
1	My mother was in the hospital. I had spoke to her on the phone and she sounded fine. I arrived at hospital about 1 1/2 hours later. She was lethargic and her pulse was 40. I knew from dealing with different things while taking care of her that something had changed in the time I had talked to her until I got to hospital. I talked to the nurse who told me she had had her morning medicine. I ask to see her chart of exactly what she had been given. The nurse wasn't happy about that but I assured her I wasn't trying to cause trouble I just wanted to find out what was wrong with my mother. After looking at her chart I realized she had been given too much of one of her medicines. There was an error by doctor or hospital in what she actually took. I immediately called pharmacy spoke to pharmacist, explained what had happen and had him look up what to expect. It wasn't an amount that would cause any damage, just make her feel bad for awhile. I had to take control as all the nurse seemed concerned about was who's fault it was. I explained to her...mistakes happen..we're human but when you make one or one is made you try to correct it asap.
1	"I had surgery on my abdomen which left a scar from my waist to mid-chest. I developed a hernia soon after. Someone asked me what happened since they could see me ""stomach"" sticking out so far. I was able to explain that surgery weakened muscle and other tissue resulting in a hernia. "
-1	I read a lot information about diseases on line.
1	During my first pregncy my blood pressure continued to rise in my last weeks. Suddenly I began to have rapid swelling in my legs, hands, and face. I knew that this could lead to a massive complication and risk the life of my and my child. I told my doctor my symptoms, she ran some tests, and I was induced the next day. 
1	I can't really think of any examples.
1	I haven't had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge in medical issues. 
1	When I was 14 my father was diagnosed with lung cancer and died 3 months later after having gone through both chemo and radiation treatments. When I was 24 my mother died of lung cancer after having fought it for years going through numerous surgeries and chemo treatments. When I was 25 one of my siblings died of a massive heart attack. When I was 34 I lost another sibling who died of a heart condition. When I was 39 my oldest brother died from a heart attack. There have been numerous health problems in my family and I make it a point to stay educated and informed about health topics.
-1	I could just tell from having bronchitis in elementary school, that once again in High School it came back. The cough was a different cough than just being very head-cold sick. 
1	When my grandmother was in the hospital, she seemed extremely out of it.She wasn't able to feed herself or move. I told the staff and they told me that she had experienced a minor stroke.
-1	when i was getting checked for my blood pressure i knew what it meant when they told me the measurements 
-1	Knowing that I recently had a blood test of  Vitamin D, and the results from lab stated in bold and labeled Low,  and I had been feeling little depressed and totally not functioning to my full capacity, especially with memory, I'm thinking it may be a result of low serotonin, and I myself had some previous prescription of Vitamin D, and within a few days I after taking, I was feeling a lot better.   I'm not sure what to do about the letter I received from the doctor's office stating my results were all normal,  I don't have exact figures but my level was like a 1.1  and  normal was starting over 3,  anyway.  With being a past medical transcriptionist, I have learned meanings of a lot of medical terms, no way an expert, just general of course.  
1	I could read and understand the calories in shopping for nutritiol shakes and food at the grocery store. One of the symptoms of sarcoidosis was weight loss. I lost 35 pounds very quickly. I had to find the highest calorie food and drink to restore my energy and weight.
-1	When I got pregnt with my child I had to go for checkups frequently. Every time I went to the doctor I learned  many things about pregncy and general health.
1	When my boyfriend became diabetic I noticed a body odor. My Mom had also been diabetic and I recognized it. He was vehemently denying it and I filly got him to go to the Dr. who said it was pre-diabetes.  
1	I cared for my parents who both had cancer. I studied medical terminology. I volunteered at a hospital. I have read a lot about health care issues.
-1	
1	I once took a friend to the emergency room because he was experiencing somewhat significant abdomil distress.  It turned out to be severe heartburn, but I think a 'better safe than sorry' approach is worthwhile overall.
1	My first son supposedly had a tumor, hydrocephalus, and TB in the first 18 months of his life.  He actually had none of those things but I know the worry involved, shortened my life by many years. He is now 22 and normal. And they told me he might have Down's before he was born.
-1	I rarely have to follow any particular disorders or discuss them, except for diabetes occasiolly, discussing it with my parents.
-1	I was once diagnosed with pre-diabetes. I took this information and purchased  blood sugar testing kit to monitor and reduce my blood sugar. Within a month, I was able to significantly reduce my sugar level to well within a normal range.
1	A doctor trying to tell me that pain and spotting after a routine pap exam are normal. Never had that happen before or since.  Incidentally, that was the same doctor I had to fight over the type of birth control pill I wanted to take.
1	I don't know that I've had an experience that demonstrated my having a knowledge of health or medical issues. I support a single payer option for healthcare but that's just an opinion based on politics and economics. 
1	I was told by my doctor that I was allergic to something, and I knew it was ragweed just from reading about reactions and figuring out where and when I would get them.
-1	When my father was told that he had a heart problem and they were going to put a tube in his vain to open it up and when they said that if that doesn't work they were going to put a stint in his artery.
1	My blood sugar used to be in the 250 range, so I started taking 40 mL/cc of insulin in the morning and at night, and my blood sugar has now dropped to the 80-125 range. I have to monitor when the blood sugar gets too low at night, and when it rises too high in the day.
1	A few years ago, a nurse practitioner prescribed buspirone for my anxiety. I reminded him that psychiatric drugs in general tend to affect me much more strongly than they do most people, and suggested that I should start at the lowest dose possible. He wrote the prescription for the second lowest dose available. When I got home with the medication, I broke the tablets into quarters for the first week, then into halves for the next week. I didn't have any adverse effects, but did not really see any positive effects either, so on the third week, I took whole tablets as prescribed. I got very useated, extremely dizzy, and found it nearly impossible to stay awake. I continued at the recommended dose, thinking that maybe these were side effects that would wear off with time, but they persisted. I tried to reach the nurse practitioner, but he was on vacation and I didn't feel comfortable discussing it with anyone else in the office, so I went online and looked up information about the medication. I learned that what I was experiencing were symptoms of a severe overdose of the medication. Going to an emergency room was recommended, but I felt certain that no one would listen to me if I tried to explain my drug sensitivity and that they'd probably think I took some illegal drug. I'm aware that some psychiatric drugs recommend tapering off rather than stopping abruptly, so I looked for this information online and found that while it's not recommended to stop abruptly, in some situations it may be necessary. I decided that this was one of those situations, so I stopped taking the medication. The symptoms decreased appreciably within several hours, and though there was some lingering dizziness, everything else was more or less back to normal within a few days.
1	I'm currently a foster parent to a one year old and recently had to make the choice of whether to seem medical care for a fever in the middle of the night. From working in the ER for so long, I knew the best place to start was alterting tylenol and motrin.
1	I recently went to the doctor and was told I had high salt intake and low potassium intake, I needed to increase my potassium intake 50% to get to the normal level of potassium per day.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health is that working out makes me look and feel healthier. Prior to doing cross training I felt lethargic and dull. After I have been doing the workout I feel healthier and am full of energy. My knowledge told me that if I want to stop feeling lethargic then I need to work out. I gained this knowledge through media and websites that I most recently frequent.
-1	I had white spots in the back of my throat with a terrible throat pain. I knew already that I had strep throat from the past. I knew to gurgle salt water and get to the doctor for antibiotics.
-1	We have some potential issues with one of our children when they were in eutero, so I had to read a lot about a particular condition. I feel like I gained a lot of knowledge. In addition to this, my experience in graduate school helped me to understand test designs, so I know about how effective medications are.
1	Recently I've been having testicle pain, pain in the side, and pain in the back. I used Google to come to the conclusion that I had an infection. The urologist to whom I was sent, came to the same conclusion and prescribed me antibiotics.
1	Last year when I fainted. It happens from time to time and I could tell it was happening from the world blackening from the outside in. I was in the kitchen and started lowering myself before my body gave out so I wouldn't fall and hit my head and I started calling my boyfriends me since he was home with me. I already told him some years ago that this happens and just get me some water and maybe a cold towel for when I wake back up.
1	I was at the scene of a car accident. The occupants in the car were not in any further immediate danger. Thus, I instructed others arriving on the scene not move any of the occupants in the car until the paramedics arrived. I know if someone is injured and improperly moved it could result in furthering the injury significantly. 
-1	Humans have long sought advice from those with knowledge or skill in healing. Paleopathology and other historical records, allow an examition of how ancient societies dealt with illness and outbreak
-1	When I was informed that I was borderline diabetes, but I had the opportunity of not  to be placed on medication if I lose weight and ate healthier. I had a month to show the doctor that I was capable of taking this matter into my hand, and I did. I changed my lifestyle for the best
-1	When I went to the ER for some back spasms, they wanted to give me 10ml of morphine. I'd never had it, but I knew that I was easily susceptible to medications and their effects, so I told them to please start at 2, and we could work our way up. By the time we hit 4, I was pain free, but I was also barely able to walk on my own. I'm scared to know what it would have been like if they have given me 10. 
1	I was supposed to play golf one morning, but when I woke up I discovered that my back was bothering me. I tried loosening it up with some light stretching exercises, but that didn't help. I knew that the violent twisting involved in a golf swing could aggravate my back and cause real injury, so I cancelled my tee time and allowed my back to rest. Ialso used a heat pad to it, and by the next week everything was better and I was able to play.
1	When going to my annual checkout, I can understand my lab results and diagnosis because my college nurse practitioner taught me how. 
-1	I helped a friend was almost died from drowning. Three months prior I took a cpr class. We were at the YMCA and the life guard went to the restroom. I had to pull her from the deep in and perform cpr.
1	My mother fell and hit her knee. She was able to walk and thought it would be fine with ice. I insisted she get an x-ray. She had broken her knee cap and needed surgery.
1	I am caregiver to my elderly mother for many years. She literally has issues from head to toe. I put out her meds every day. Her doctors trust me to make minor dose adjustments. Even 0.5mg can make a difference. So often doctors prescribe in increments of 25 mg or 50 mg, resulting in overdose. The dose has to be customized for each patient. 
-1	Through out my life i have been around a mother who had Lupus and a few other medical issues. As the years went on and being a heavy smoker she got Enphazima. Sadly she passed away just this past winter. I Had many talks with doctors on her behalf and was told of things we could and couldnt due. the list got smalled as time went on as she didnt like to follow any set plan. I Myself also have a medical issue call von willebrand's disease and have had to go to a blood specialist for over 20 years. 
1	I do not have a specific incident. However, my parents taught me to : Take a second opinion whenever I am faced with an important medical decision. Ask questions to the doctor about the purpose of the medicien, side-effects etc. Do your own research about the medicine.
1	I had a niece who got into a motorcycle accident. When we went to the hospital the doctor told us in a long winded medical speak that she was already dead and they were just keeping her body alive to harvest the organs. 
1	I was able to check my son's through and saw that his tonsils were red and had puss on them.  I thought he might have tonsillitis and it ended up he did.
-1	I have a sister that had a heart condition and have to have an operation.  I was very knowledgeable about her symptoms and what she went through.  A close friend of mine, began to experience some of the same symptoms.  I advised her to see a doctor as I thought it sound very much like my sisters. She was diagnosed with a heart condition afterwards and also had surgery,
1	I was having significant issues with sleeping, staying awake, headaches, extremely fogged thinking, body aches, etc. I did a green juice fast for 16 days after doing some research online. On the 12-day of the fast, every problem disappeared and has not returned, even after 5 years.
1	I was having mouth ulcers, interrupted sleep, hot flashes and irregular periods about a year ago. I immediately knew it was a hormone imbalance and the start of perimenopause.  I knew that I needed to go to the physician and get a hormone replacement therapy if I was going to start feeling more normal.  I went to a gynecologist since they are more equipped in handling this type of problem.  I know that for heart and bone health it is important that I take some kind of hormone replacement because Osteoporosis does run in my family.  I also knew I needed a supplement with not only estrogen but progesterone.  So I was sure to notice the physician gave me the right prescription.  And to save money I also knew that I could cut the pill in half since the best therapy is the lowest dose that relieves symptoms.  I cut the pills in half and they seem to be working fine and have relieved the menopausal symptoms. 
1	When my daughter was born she had a slight yellow to her eyes so I knew most likely she was jaundice
-1	I have never had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	A few times at work, I fell asleep in the morning, and as I woke up, knew I was pected a sleep condition. I looked in a medical book and online and discobered it is Sleep Paralysis.awake but couldn't talk or move my body. I susy
1	I discovered at 18 what type of mental disorders I had. I'd been experiencing these extreme ailments since 12. Because I had had the symptoms for so long, it was extremely easy to research the information online when I found out the specific terms.
1	I have begun using essential oils, and I have used them on many different ailments and problems. One thing I used them to clear up was using lemon oil with my water once a day to cleanse my body and my kidney numbers became much better.
1	When I was overweight and I would be out of breathe all the time from barely doing anything and I realized my heart was working too hard and I had to lose weight and exercise.
-1	I have always been in and out of the doctors due to health concerns 
1	My father had a stroke and was diagnosed with high cholesterol. He was put under medication and in order to help him lower his cholesterol I have to ensure that he abstain from some food and have more food that will reduce his cholesterol. I googled to find out what to do to keep his cholesterol in check.
-1	whenever i have any issue i usually ask my dad or my brother. when I got chicken pox I knew that i have to be at home because it is a contagious virus and its symptoms i:e fever and loss of appetite
1	I wa sin a car accident and had to visit  doctors and physical therapists  for a few months. I learned a lot  from the doctors and staff members
1	when noticing the way that my body was reacting and breaking out that I knew something was wrong so I researched it and brought it to the attention of my doctor and gave him my opinion what it may be
1	I often take my parents to the doctor because they need me to translate so when the doctor explained that he had vertigo I had to learn the maneuvers that he needed to do at home along with the medicine for him to feel better.  He tends to quickly forget and is often stubborn about about following the doctor's orders so I made sure I remembered the maneuver so I could advise him at home.
-1	When a lady needed cpr. I knew exactly what to do because I have been trained in cpr. I acted quickly and calmly , and stayed with her until the ambulance arrived.
1	Having to go see a specialist doctor and being able to converse quite easily with them about various conditions I had was due to research and learning as much as I could so as to have at least a general knowledge base to work with. I've also on several occasions answered some friends questions when they asked about what I think might be a problem with them, and I was either right (from having experienced the same thing myself) or was pretty close with my thoughts on the issue at hand.
1	I read online.  I educated myself about treatment.  I learned a lot and asked the doctor great questions about my recovery.
1	When I have uncertain disease even though simple test cannot be detected. I once needed to have a lot of tests to determine what's on earth of my health conditions. I always search the internet for answers besides ask my physician. That's a difficult time to go on guessing of own medical issues.
-1	I google my symptoms before going to a doctor. As the doctor examined me, I used my new found knowledge from the web to try to get the best medical attention possible.
-1	I am ok with medical knowledge. I work with it. I am not good at math.
1	When my son was sick and I treated him better than the doctor.
1	When I found out I had Crohn's disease I had to, with the help of my doctor, determine what my best options were to mage the disease.  I had to use a bit of trial and error (one medication gave me acute pancreatitis), and find the best dose for myself, to keep the disease at bay. 
-1	I had high cholesterol and did not want to take the prescribed medicine because i do not like taking any medicine at all so i changed my diet and dranked grapefruit and water. When i went back for a dr visit my cholesteroll was mormal so i was taken off the meds.
-1	when my kid had constipation, i knew what to do in that situation. which is drink a lot of liquid and try sitting on the toiletseat to see if you can squat and maybe that will help. 
-1	I had a headache last night and took an aspirin. Then today I did these math questions about health issues.
1	I was having dizziness, fatigue and unquenchable thirst. I went to my doctor concerned with diabetes. Test results showed I was borderline diabetic. Because of my early concern, I was able to correct the issue before medication was needed.
-1	I've learned and used different kinds of ICD-9 and 10 codes while doing medical billing work
-1	I had to write a research paper on diabetes and I did well on it.
-1	My dad had bipolar and I dealt with this throughout my life. I started doing research on my own when I was young because I wanted to better understand what my dad was going through. I continued to do this throughout his life when he was diagnosed with diabetes and cardiomyopathy. I needed to know how to best care for him. I do this with my own conditions as well.  
1	When I was watching a medical documentary meant for health professionals, they were saying medical words that I easily understood like tachycardia, hypoglycemic. etc
1	Had a doctor tell me I needed a prescription for gestational diabetes. I denied taking it and controlled it just fine using diet and exercise on my own.
-1	I can't really think of any? This isn't something that comes up a lot
1	I do not have any significant health experiences. I am just observant and retain the knowledge I learn with my routine visits to the doctor. I also listen to other people's stories about their doctor visits. 
-1	being sick on multiple occasions and solving with hoe remedies instead of going to dr
1	I used math which I ma not that good at. I typically do not need math when figuring my health information. However, a Doctor does and that is why I trust a Doctor's math skills beyond my own and trust the Doctor to explain things that I do not fully understand.
1	As a mother you learn a lot about health issues. One thing that I learned along the way is that if you have a cold/cough and a persons breathing can be heard while listening against their back, at the least, they have bronchitis
1	I once visited a friend who was finishing up some carpentry work in his workshop. He cut his hand and asked if he should get it sewn up. I advised him that if he'd cut himself deep enough to reveal fatty yellow tissue, that he should go to the emergency room and get stitches. He did, so he did.
1	I had to drive my sister to the doctor for an appointment. She didn't know what some of the things the form required her to fill so she asked me to help her to fill out her form
1	Helping my relative navigate their new diagnosis by pointing them in the direction of resources
1	My wife was about to have heart surgery and was sure she would die. I told her the success rate was 98 % for her operation due to 2 % dying from anesthesia intolerance. Since she had recently tolerated general anesthesia, she should not be concerned about that issue.
1	My mother always want me with her when she takes medical exams because she knows I'm good at understanding what doctors says and I always ask relevant questions.
1	When I had high blood pressure I knew I needed to remove stress, exercise and eat well.  I was able to lower it without taking medication. 
1	I went to the doctors about one issue and the doctor brought up another issue I was already aware of. I told them some of the things I already knew about the separate issue and they seemed impressed with my knowledge.It made me feel like I was in charge of and aware of my own health.
1	I felt a pop in my knee and it swelled up and I couldn't walk for days. I went online and figured out based on comparing my research to my symptoms that I likely tore my ACL. Sure enough when I went to the doctor he referred me to an orthopedic surgeon who gave me a MRI and confirmed that I had torn my ACL.
1	My sister has MS and I have been the primary person seeking out treatments and getting her into trials.I have to understand what is out there and if it is an option.
-1	To be honest i cant recall the last time i demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. This would have to be the most recent time that i can recall.
1	These are easy calculations. Basic percents and common sense calculations.
1	I can't think of anything like this.
1	I demonstrate knowledge of health and medical issues in my work every day. Whether it is caring for my own children or the patients I care for every day.
1	I was at a dentist and he said that one of my wisdom tooth had cavity. He said that we have two choices, we can test and see how bad the cavity is then decide with to extract the tooth or do root canal to save the tooth. After the testing he suggested root canal, which was expensive. I asked the wisdom tooth has no purpose right, can we not extract it instead. To which he agreed. But that was not the first option he gave me.
1	I had an issue with my stomach and quickly realized what was wrong because of past experience with the same issue. I went to the doctor and was told to follow the same regimen as last time to correct it. I knew exactly what she was talking about and felt very familiar with it
1	I began having pain in my feet. It was a sharp, burning electrical pain. I believed it to be neuropathy from having had diabetes. I went to the doctor and got checked out and he confirmed that was indeed what I was suffering from. 
-1	I visited a doctor for yearly checkup. They told me about a condition I might have and recommended an additional visit. I looked up online about the condition but I did not see that I had any of the symptoms. As time went on I continued to be in good health.
1	I cured myself of an infection using Allicin rather than rx antibiotics. The arrogant and ignorant doctor had never heard of Allicin, and denied it would work. 
1	Talking to a psychologist I tested him and was able to humble him because I know more than he does about what we were discussing.
1	When I was pregnant I did lots of research and new what I wanted for the birth. 
-1	When my dad had cancer a few years ago I would go with him to meet with doctors and listen to different opinions. It helped me get an understanding on issues that I previously knew little about.
1	I have been taking steps to improve my blood pressure and blood sugar level by eating healthier and exercising. It has been working. I have been losing weight and my numbers have improved.
1	At work, both therapists were out for the morning and an ew admit came in. He was listed as mute as nursing could get no response other than agitation out of the patient. Chart review - damage to left hemisphere of brain (broca's wernicke area), non-fluent aphasia. I suggested that people start singing to him to get something more in terms of responses. It worked, he could sing (nothing drastic or terribly clear however, enough that communication was somewhat possible.)
-1	doctor explained to me what was going on and i understood it completely with no questions
1	I think the most memorable experience I can think of is when I started experiencing acute pain in my general groin area & started frantically googling the symptoms, prior to going to an emergency room, which were actually very hard to narrow down. Through a process of elimination, I was able to determine I was suffering from acute epididymitis, which the ER doctor was actually very reluctant to diagnose given that I did not fit into the typical risk group/rarity of occurrence, but that is indeed ultimately what it was.
-1	I had a dizzy headache. I knew right away it was a migraine. 
-1	I demonstrated knowledge of my health issues when I knew my back hurt due to poor posture and I told my doctor about it and he agreed.
1	I think it is determining the best solution for my anti depressants. It causes me to wake up early in the morning. I have done different things for a few weeks at a time to rule out various possibilities while trying to determine the solution.
-1	i felt nausious when i ate something foreign to me.  i thought it might be an allergic reaction and i went to the doctor and that was his diagnosis for me
1	Answering questions in this survey. I think I did fairly well and answered most of them correctly. There was one that I didn't understand (the one that had the p=0.05)
-1	I believed I had pneumonia because I read and researched about the symptoms. I went to the hospital and they confirmed it. 
1	I did some research on migraine headaches before going to the doctor and was able to have an intelligent conversation with them about it. I talked about potential treatments and asked questions. Together, my doctor and I came to a conclusion as to what the best course of treatment would be. 
-1	It could help me figure out the different ways health information is presented. That means I have a better grasp of my own health issues that might come up.
-1	I started having issues with my stomach. This included frequent heartburn and indigestion, and pain between my bellybutton and my breasts, throwing up acid, losing weight, and other things. During college, I had read about stomach ulcers. I had not looked up the symptoms yet because I always do that and I didn't want to get myself worked up. After dealing with it for awhile, I figured I had a stomach ulcer and I should probably look up how to go about treating it. Sure enough, when I looked it up, the symptoms matched 100% My grandmother was going to the doctor for her colon, and he was super friendly and I asked him about the possibility of me ACTUALLY having an ulcer. He asked me questions, asked me to show him where it was hurting--all for free. He said for me to keep doing what I was doing which was taking OTC Prilosec. He said the fact that I started that on my own was a big help in healing the ulcer. So, my knowledge from college led me to accurately start taking the right medicine without going to the doctor.
1	i have a toddler, she had pin worms, i knew to go to the pharmacy and buy the medicine
-1	Just personal experience with myself and family
1	A friend of mine had pain around his genital area several years ago, and he said he had experienced the pain for a while. I knew it didn't sound normal, so I told him to get it checked because I thought it could be testicular cancer. It turns out it was after a screening and he had surgery to remove the cancer. I felt like I demonstrated a bit of knowledge there.
1	When I was given a prescription by my doctor for chronic back pain. I went through multiple tests at the hospital and had several talks with my doctor about pain management and exactly the root cause of the pain. I took the proper steps to rectify the situation and read all side effects of medication I was prescribed. I even switched my medication until I found something that was the most beneficial. 
-1	My doctor told me about high blood pressure and I already had a feeling that I did because I looked up the symptoms online.
-1	An experience that describes my knowledge is when I was trying to get pregnant. I knew I was infertile and there was something wrong. I'm young there's zero reason. I had three miscarriages . I did some internet sleuthing and suspected I had pcos. I told my doctor and it was confirmed. I have cysts all over my ovaries and I don't ovulate. I also have squanmous cells in my uterus that have a 20% chance of becoming cancer. Its not from HPV so its more rare than what most people get. 
1	I like to keep read up on new health advances and I like to keep read up on changes to health practices. 
-1	When I had the flu a couple of years ago. I just knew that is what I had before I went to the doctor. I went to the doctor and told her I have the flu and she said well let's just double check to make sure and that is what I had.
1	My doctor was reading my blood pressure and started to explain to me about the readings. I already knew about the optimal levels of blood pressure and ways to keep my blood pressure in check.
-1	I don't have any.
1	Taking this survey and answering the questions shows my general understanding and is my most recent experience of this sort. 
-1	I researched information on thyroid issues and found that it is an immunity issue and caused my weakened immunity, which drs. never told me about.  I learned that there are many things I could do to try to help my thyroid issues without having to stay on medications.
1	Well my mom and grandma have both had cancer (breast/skin) and because of this I made sure to learn as much about skin cancer and detecting what is and isn't cancerous. Because of this I also get my self checked regulatory from a dermatologist
-1	I don't get too much direct sunlight often and I notice that if this goes on for a while I'll get sick more easily due to a weaker immune system based on my research and there are other side effects to having a weak immune system through research and from there I became interested in vitamins and once I started I kept looking into different supplements and how they can strengthen my body and I gained lots of medical knowledge though that.
-1	I try to read everything the best of my ablity. Remember how my doctor describes my medical records and connect it to this.
1	one day i woke up with severe, sharp, stabbing pain in my upper mid right abdomen. i had a strong feeling it was my gallbladder and went to the ER. i had an emergency cholecystectomy that night.
1	I can't think of anything specific. I have a general knowledge of anatomy and medical terms, so usually there isn't a need to have anything explained to me. There never has been a specific case where I dazzled medical professionals with my knowledge.
-1	"When my son was born, he looked ""off"" he was darker than my husband and I. I told my nurse there was something wrong with him and she said no, some babies are just darker. I said no because both my husband and I are white so he shouldn't be so ""tan"". Come to find out he had a rare congenital disease that is now managed with medication. "
-1	When I decided to lose weight, I believed that i was the best person for any body that is trying t lose weight.
1	been taking blood pressure medication for 1 year now and learning about my health a I go
-1	I am able to recognize general medical terms when mentioned by my doctor.
1	I am a internal medicine resident, I diagnose and treat diseases for a living
1	I was able to tell my doctor my symptoms and was diagnosed with exactly what I told them I thought I had. 
-1	When I was told that I had a urinary tract infection. I was aware of the symptoms and I had also had a UTI in the past years before, so I was pretty sure that was what I had. When my doctor diagnosed me, I was right, as expected.
1	My wife has been pregnant many times and she has miscarried several times.  I know what to look for on an ultrasound machine and have knowledge of how to use it by watching nurses operate the machine.  I know the things to look for right away.
1	"I have LVH (left ventricle hypertrophy) as verified by a EKG and a subsequent echo cardiogram.  This was very scary, since i was so young when it was diagnosed.  It turns out its nothing major, but i need to just monitor it.  Apparently  a lot of ""bigger"" guys have it."
-1	My mother had pains in her stomach and I told her it had to be ulcers. She went to the doctors and they told her she had stomach problems. Weeks later we found out she had ulcers.
-1	When I looked up information online that informed me of certain symptoms that were linked to diseases worse than I thought I had I was able to control my anxiety and find out the real problem instead of freaking out.
1	My daughter was born with a bi-cuspid aortic valve.   The involved the diagnosis as well as follow up appointments with a specialist. 
1	When my mother was diagnosed with ovarian cancer, i spent a lot of time researching medical treatments, chances of survival, and different facilties and the best doctors in the world in the field. I learned a lot about the cancer - the severity of it, the steps needed to take, what chemotherpahy does for the body, the success rates of chemo and the success rates of a successful tumor removal surgery. 
1	When my husband was 29 he had a virus and was not feeling well for days, that weekend he mentioned chest pain and I made him go to the ER, sure enough his triponen levels were high and he had had a heart attack caused by pericarditis. 
-1	This is so open ended. I took medication effectively. I reported side effects to my doctor. I take my blood pressure and check my weight regularly. I don't know.
1	I was sitting on my couch one day and started to get itchy all over. I remembered that I had just mowed the lawn that morning and I have an allergic reaction to grass. I knew what was going on with my body after that.
-1	I went to the doctor when I had an ear problem and I knew the cause and the doctor was impressed with my ear knowledge
1	I work in a medical setting at a university, and work closely with doctors every day. Over time, I have learned more about medicine, just by being around health professionals often. 
1	Mostly just times that my doctor has talked to me about things that I may or may not have wrong. I ask for clarification when I don't understand what he's saying but I typically understand on the first go through.
1	I have been sick before and gone to the doctor because I felt that something was different. I noticed my symptoms were slightly different from previous sickness and because of that I decided that seeing a doctor was a good idea. It turned out to be nothing, but I try to be careful when something is different from previous experiences.
1	During my first night on my Human Anatomy class, we had a pop quiz about general health issues. I got 97/ 100 questions correct. The next highest was 87, and the average was 56.
1	I had testicular cancer at age 20. going in i didn't know much about it. But through the process i did a lot of research and learned a lot. for instance. my doctor told me that my lymph nodes were 5 mm and were getting close to the threshold of concern, which is 7 mm. i knew that from research online. 
-1	I was beginning to have a lot of stomach issues and increased heart rate in certain situations. I was aware of the effects anxiety has on the body and went in to see a doctor to asses my situation and get the help I needed to determine whether the cause of my problems were due to anxiety, which they were.
-1	i have no idea what experience in my life demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. i dont have any
-1	My wife had an allergic reaction to a medication and I informed her she needed to take Benadryl and call the doctor. 
-1	I read the internet. Seriously, math is cute but it comes down to communication. If a smart person can't explain something so others can understand it the they aren't actually that smart
-1	I took a class in college about health and Sociology, and there were many projects related to poverty and the ability to access medical care, and/or to even be able to afford it.  We learned lots of terms, and issues, and controveries related to health access in the country.
-1	I am not sure if I have the proper knowledge but once I thought I was having something like a heart attack. I was required to take a stress test and it was concluded that I was fine. It may have been extreme pain from something else but it was not my heart. So that would be the most extensive medical anything I have ever undergone at this point in my life. 
1	I really don't know if there is a specific instance of any importance. I guess when I check online and I diagnose what I have and it turns out to be correct.
1	I was able to have an intelligent conversation with my doctor about my thyroid levels. I had already been to doctors for the problem before and had had them explained to me briefly, so I already knew something about the subject.
1	I cut my finger stabbing ants. I got some old rags from the shed and taped the rag around my finger.
1	I went to nursing school and graduated and then I passed my boards and then I worked as a nurse for four years on a medical surgical floor.
-1	I was able to diagnose my daughters epilepsy before we took her to a doctor.  She had small Absence seizures, and after some research i was able to correctly decide that is what it was.  The doctor confirmed this when we took her.
-1	when my abdomen hurt about 10 years ago, I knew it was appendicitis from the feeling and what I knew about the condition. I went to the emergency room and told them what i thought it was and they ran tests. It came back that I was right and I had to have surgery
1	I check my blood sugars daily. My sugars should be below 120. I know when my sugar is high because of the way I feel. I also read literature to determine what level is best for me.
-1	boy this one is tough maybe self diagnosing that I had a sinus infection so that I didn't have to go to the doctor and spend a lot of money on medicine and copays and I was actually right
1	I don't know that I have any health or medical knowledge to actually demonstrate.  I do have allergies so I feel like throughout the years I have learned a lot about allergies and their symptoms, so I know what to do and what medicine to take when my allergies start acting up.
1	I have had to demonstrate knowledge of health materials when I used to work in a hospital when I was younger.
1	I've had a series of hemorrhoids ranging from mild to thrombosed over the years. After my first thrombosed hemorrhoid, I was aware of the early signs of a hemorrhoid that could get worse. Recently, I became aware of these early signs and took steps (ice pack, warm bath, higher fiber) to ward off a worse situation.
1	I work in a medical field, so I often have to explain to patients health related topics. My role is to describe, in as much detail, the diagnosis of the patients I see. 
-1	having prostrate problems, research and found a two drug us would shrink and help. asked my dr for prescription which she wrote
1	I recently went to the urgent care because I thought I had a specific condition. I recognized symptoms of this condition, and I looked up the symptoms online to confirm what I thought I had. When I saw the doctor, he confirmed that I had what I thought I had an prescribed me the appropriate medications to treat it.
-1	When trying out a new diet, I had to be conscious of how many calories I was consuming, so I made notes and decided which foods I could have and which ones I needed to avoid.
1	I had a class on basic health in college. I passed the class and got a reasonable grade. All of my exams and projects for that class turned out well
1	When my dad's toes recently started turning black, I told dad that he either had poor circulation or his toes were dying of gangrene. He had gangrene and had to have his leg amputated.
1	I have a particular medical need that required me to get a medication that is only prescribed upon being asked for it.  I knew all the reasons why I needed it and the doctor gave it to me no problem.
1	When my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer a few years ago, I needed to help my parents sort through treatment options and figure out what they wanted to do as far as chemotherapy, radiation, surgery, and other treatments.  I helped them use the internet to research and to find doctors who could give them different opinions, I helped them read through the information they were given in various places, and I did my best to be supportive in their efforts to figure it all out.  I used what I knew and what I knew how to do to help them as best as I could.
1	I had knee surgery and my knee was feeling swollen and sore a couple of years later when i started running a lot. I went to the doctors and said I thought it was just inflammation and he agreed. 
1	I really have not had to use it much. I have not gone to the hospital for any reason, except for when I fell and hit my head skiing. There I was feeling dizzy the day after, and wanted to get checked out by the doctor
-1	I got a steroid injection and on the way home started having itching and hives. I knew I was having an allergic reaction 
1	my sister fainted one morning and i knew it was likely due to her low blood sugar - i had her drink juice and she felt better
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues mostly revolves around being able to look up information on various conditions or reading information being given by doctors.  I take no prescriptions, have not had any major illnesses nor been significantly injured. 
1	I battled plantar fasciaitis for a long time and have learned how to harness the pain after many years of treatment and studying.  I had friends having the same issues and I was able to teach them effectively how to help treat the problem.
1	Was experiencing pains on each side of the lower back.  Was unsure as it did not feel like a muscle issue. Realized, this was the location of the kidneys.  Decided to change up my diet, and go on a two week cleanse. Sure enough, after a few days, the pains started to diminish and were completely gone before the two week cleanse was done. 
1	I have never had a serious health issue, so I do not have an answer for this question.  In general I exercise and eat well and have been healthy so far.
-1	When I had back surgery 6 years ago I knew exactly what the surgeon needed to do. I had a herniated disc so it required and open discectomy and I also had to have a laminectomy. Laminectomy is basically the shaving of laminae which is on the anterior portion of the spine. The outcome was great and I had all the faith in the world with my doctor. 
1	I have had to make several decisions regarding high blood pressure. I had high blood pressure and was also overweight. My doctor gave me the option to get on blood pressure medication or lose weight. 
1	I did not take an ambien to go to sleep because I knew that there are potential side effects with the medication. I took melatonin instead.
1	In a class in high school, a student said that vaccines caused autism. I explained to him and the class that there was zero link between the two, and that the doctor who claimed that there was got his medical license taken away. 
1	A few years ago, I had a pain in my lower stomach that I thought was a bladder infection. I went to get it checked out and found out that it wasn't a bladder infection. I did some research online to see what other things could be causing my pain. One of them was ovarian cysts. I went to a gynecologist and she confirmed that I had cysts.
1	I have a rare disease. I went misdiagnosed for 3 years by many doctors in my state. Finally I flew to Mayo Clinic, and they diagnosed and treated me. So I dont trust local doctors as much now
-1	One time my wife was complaining about a burning sensation in her chest. She was very concerned and we went to the doctor I told her before we got there it was probably heartburn. It turned out she did, in fact, have heartburn.
1	When my children get a cold or have cold like symptoms, unless I can't control the fever or they display new or extreme symptoms, I do not take them to the doctor because viruses can't be treated with medication.
1	I was at work and a coworker of mine was about to faint, I knew exactly what to do, so I helped him out
1	When I went to the chiropractor and he helped me understand how a lot of things worked and really explained a lot of medical terminology to me.
1	A few months ago, I had to go to the doctor's office for an MRI. While waiting, they gave me a pre-screening evaluation of my medical history and family medical history. On the paper included many medical terms and illnesses that I was familiar with due to the courses I had taken in college. I was able to complete the form without asking any questions.
1	I do not have much experience, besides my years in school. I feel that most of this being asked is just common knowledge and basic math skills being used to answer.
1	my grandmother recently had surgery and was released from the hospital after healing with no apparently complications. however, upon returning home she began experiencing sweating and very mean behaviors which is completely unlike her. I immediately called her doctor and said I believed her to have a possible UTI. The dr said to bring her in to be checked - sure enough she had a UTI. which is a common occurrence after surgery in elderly people however many people do not know the signs to look for
1	The only thing I can think of is that it's very easy for me to control my own weight.  I pretty much know how much I should be eating without counting calories or fat or anything.  I just naturally know how to keep myself at a healthy weight.
1	An instance when I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues is when I took a look at a rash on my wife's arm, and correctly diagnosed the cause prior to visiting the doctor. I knew that it was a chemical based reaction, due to prior experience and research when something similar happened to me in the past.
-1	I was recently at the doctor and had been very fatigued and could not breath threw my nose. I looked up my symptoms and found I most likely had a sinus infection. I went to the doctor and they said they will tell me exactly what was wrong, and low and behold it was a sinus infection.
1	When my grandpa had terminal cancer, I was able to figure out how much time he had left and that it was terminal.  that allowed me to enjoy what time I had left with him and prepare myself for when he died.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I was able to effectively calculate the caloric intake of my daily meals. Although this is not the most knowledgeable thing to know, I feel that it is important that I am able to calculate calories in order to watch my diet and not overeat as a result of being unable to calculate what my diet should be like on a daily basis. 
-1	I experience many times due to health issues. Because I check up my father for the medical issue. So, I experienced very well due to the hospitality. 
-1	When I was pregnant, I read a lot about the pregnancy and what to expect. With this knowledge I was able to understand what my body was going through and to react according to what my body was telling me.
1	Well, one time my little brother began having a panic attack; basically, hyperventilating, trouble breathing, shocked eyes/body language.. using what I learned about those types of attacks, I did what I could to calm him down.
1	My father-in-law, recently had surgery to remove his thyroid.  In conversation with my wife, she was confused, not knowing what it was.  I was able to explain what the thyroid does.
1	My grandpa died of cancer and due to previous experiences I was able to gauge more or less how much time he had according to how fast the cancer seemed to be spreading. I also knew that different cancers can spread at different rates and used the doctor's info to try to figure it all out.
1	I lived with a roommate in college and he had an intense pain in his side. He was vomiting and I knew it was his kidney and he was having a stone or problem with it. I took him to the hospital immediately.
1	I had taken medication for headaches for 7 years,  I did reading online and talked to a friend who was a medical doctor and figured out that the medication was no longer effective for me, but my doctor just kept renewing it anyway. When I talked to her about it then she re looked at my charts and officially took me off of it. 
-1	Taking a physical, and during the follow up, asking questions, the end result being giving the answers which enabled me to become more knowledgeable about health and medical issues.
1	I used to help take care of a cousin who had muscular dystrophy, and she got sick for a few days and stopped eating as much. I noticed, convinced a family member to take her to a hospital and treat her before things got any worse.
1	My boyfriend's mother was sick and I was able to help her understand a lot of the paperwork and doctor's notes at the hospital.
1	When I was diagnosed with epilepsy, I researched the condition; I researched the medication and potential side effects. Before I had tests done, I researched what would occur during the test.
-1	I once had a friend who was going to start taking a newer version of Acutane and I helped them steer clear of that drug because it had caused a colon condition in me. The ability to help them with my past experience gave me some knowledge on this issue.
1	When I gave birth to my son I knew what was happening to me medically, every step of the way. I had studied everything there was to know about the birth process.
-1	when my little sister had her 2nd child she had a c-section and I was elected to pack the incision when she was sent home as it was not fully healed yet. I had to go to her house every night and clean the incision and repack it with gauze. 
1	Grew up with going to the doctors with my mother very often. I sat in with her and listened and learned. I have asked questions for clarity and researched to further understand her conditions
-1	I am aware of changes in my body.  If I am severely sick I will go see a doctor even though I may or may not know what is wrong.  There is a possibility that there is something I am not aware of and by seeing the doctor, after I explain the symptoms, he/she may know what is wrong.
1	Had a bad reaction to a medication, passed out and hit my head. Went to urgent care, did not have concussion symptoms. Urgent care doctor recommended a CT scan and did not give a neurological exam. Followed up with primary doctor a week later, doctor gave a neurological exam, no concussion symptoms. Recommended not to get the scan. I did not get the scan.
1	my wife has crohn's disease and was recently hospitalized with an intestinal blockage.  I studied all of the test findings and discussed results with doctors and surgeons and came to a good understanding of all the issues, treatments and likely outcomes.
1	When my father came to live with me as he was too sick to care for himself as he had COPD.  I really learned alot about hospice care, medicines, diet and the process of dying.  
1	When my kids are sick I know how to take care of them, like if they're running a temperature. I know when they need to be checked out by the pediatrician and when it's just a regular cold that they can't do anything about.
1	I had multiple concussions growing up. While playing college football I sustained my 4th concussion. As a result, I had to get multiple tests run and was told I should be done playing football. I had to read a lot about percentages that increase with multiple concussions and side effects that take a long time to show up as well as side effects that happen immediately and can be tough to recover from.
1	I can't think of a specific experience off the top of my head, but when I was seeing my psychiatrist, he often tried putting me on anti-depressants I knew wouldnt work because we had disagreements about my symptoms. After several months, he realized I was right. 
-1	well i currently work in a hoptial's warehosue and while i deliver the stuff to the floors i overheard drs and nurses talking about medical stuff and to me it is not that hard to grasp and understand
-1	health is important. it should start with you making sure you are eating the right things and make sure all medication is being taken properly. the doctor is next by making sure he is all about you and wants the best for you without you being a number but a person with feelings and also having follow up in the right amount time for refills and any concerns one would have 
1	After my last pregnancy, I noticed that I felt sluggish, tired & not able to lose weight. After doing some research at home, I found that I could possible have a Thyroid disorder. I followed up with my PCP & he ran the proper blood tests, that in fact showed that I had Hypothyroidism.
1	I was recently diagnosed with high blood pressure, so I came home and spent time researching it and finding out what I needed to do and was able to implement those changes and actions. 
1	When my father had diabetes 2 and I sat him down when we got home and tried to explain some of the things he didn't understand he wondered why I knew so much and I told him I suspected he may have diabetes so I went and researched the subject a lot before the doctors visit.  After a couple hours he felt more comfortable dealing with his diabetes.
-1	When taking prescription medication you have to administer it yourself. You have to carefully following the instructions about how many pills to take. It also shows you things to avoid like alcohol. You need to be very careful when doing this because there might be side effects from the medication. 
-1	When I became seriously ill from my gallbladder, I had to be transferred to an outside hospital to receive treatment. I understood what was happening and the possibility of what could happen.
1	I was having serious gastrointestinal issues for many years and all the doctors were telling me to just take nausea medication and weren't trying to help me figure out the problem. I told them I wanted to do blood tests and kept at it until someone took me seriously
-1	All I know is what I have and have learned by doing research on it.  My bones are thinning so I researched on the medicines that help stop the process.  I looked it up and asked doctor questions whether it can be taken with other medicines and how long.  
1	I went to the emergency room with a dislocated knee, but the doctors insisted it was something else, until I was able to pop my knee back into place while waiting for x-rays.
-1	I had had some bad chest pains and thought I was having a heart attack it hurt so bad. I went to the ER and they did all the tests to check for heart attack and everything came back fine. They would not tell me what was wrong with me other than I didnt have heart problems. I got online and started googling my symptoms and realized that I had costocondritis which I had never heard of. So i basically diagnosed myself with it and did what everyone in forums had tried for theirs and eventually it got better and went away. 
-1	I have the knowledge base because I am a nurse but I am not that good at math. The percentages are throwing me off and therefore I am not doing well. I do know a lot of the medical conditions. 
1	My brother called me because my father was having chest pains, so I told my brother to find an aspirin and crush it up or have my father chew it, because I knew aspirin was recommended for heart problems and I learned from a neuroscience class that crushing it up gets it into the system faster.
1	I have been fortunate enough not to have any health issues in my life.  I have experience working for an insurance company that processes health claims.
-1	There was a time where I had to take care of myself and by using my skills I was able to get things done the right way
-1	When I had endometriosis and fibroids so bad it caused me to have a hysterectomy at a younger age. I had to go to several doctors to finally find one that was willing to do the surgery. Several refused to do the surgery because I was younger and not married yet. They thought I would change my mind on wanting children even though I knew have endometriosis as bad as I did was a health risk
1	When my doctor told me I have high blood pressure and asked me if I knew how to lower it I told him I did as I had done my research no high blood pressure. I told him about my eating changes and exercises that I could do and he was quite impressed.
1	"I went to an urgent care with the same symptoms as my husband.  My husband was seen by one doctor, prescribed an antibiotic, and felt better within 24 hours.  I was seen by a different doctor, told I had a virus, and sent home with no medication.  I continued to worsen as my husband got better.  I sought out a second opinion and was able to convince the doctor that something more was wrong than just a virus.  I was reluctantly given a chest x-ray and found that my ""virus"" had manifested to pneumonia."
1	I had an inflammatory issue which cause my skin to turn very red.  I believed it was an immune response to foods so while I took a steroid, I also researched and found an anti-inflammatory diet which brought my skin back to normal.
-1	i have went to many doctors as my family members have lot of medical problems i learn somewhat from the doctor as there are many kind of issues so that i have some knowledge about health issue
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues was when I studying to take my medical and billing examination.
-1	I started having chronic health issues 20 years ago. I tried to seek help from my doctor, and also a university medical center, but was given no explanation for my symptoms. I researched my own symptoms online, and after much research was able to figure out a little of what was going on with me. I brought this information to an out of town doctor, who was able to connect the dots for me in some areas. So, doing my own research helped me to at least get a medical professional to take me seriously.
-1	I can't answer this question accurately, because I have no knowledge of health issues other than the basic information about diseases and other things.
1	My mother who had a history of hypertension and, recent stent placement in a renal artery, was noted to have several syncopal episodes.  Her blood pressure meds had not been changed since her renal artery stenting and I suspected her meds needed to be lowered due to increased renal blood flow/improved blood pressure control.  I contacted her internist office and they agreed.
1	I have been able to ascertain when by blood pressure was too high and when it was too low and how the surroundings affected them both
1	After a bout of iritis I took a blood test.  They were looking for the genetic marker for ankylosing spondilitis and found it.  The doctor called me and said I had a 90% chance of having the disease.  I then looked up this information online and found that that's not what the results meant.  90% of people who have ankylosing spondilitis have the genetic market I have, but that's very different from my having it meaning I have a 90% chance of having the disease.
-1	An experience in my life that made me demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was out of shape and I would breathe very heavily after doing an activity. I read on the subject to gain more knowledge and try to prevent it from happening again. I had to get in shape.
1	When I was pregnant and had low iron I needed to receive 5 iron infusions so I needed to learn about the iron infusions and the side effects, etc. Also I have a blood clotting disorder so while I was pregnant I needed to learn about the precautions that would need to be taken in order to have a safe birth.
1	I have 2 kids so my wife and I are always considering medical issues when they are sick. I have used my knowledge of things like safe temperatures and the look of rashes and other symptoms to determine whether or not they need to go to the doctor and have been correct so far.
1	I was at the hospital with my girlfriend and they gave her too much IV fluid. She began swelling up and i let the doctor know that she was becoming overhyrdrated
-1	I favor students and potential employees who came across the profession through life experience: had a sick family member who received occupational therapy ... Best Advice: I think one of the biggest tips for this question is honesty  do not try to expand or exaggerate your experience as I know that you are new to the field.
1	I understand how to take my own blood pressure, and what the diastolic and systolic pressure rates mean, so I know understand what the results are when a nurse takes myu blood pressure.
-1	My mother and grandmother are nurses, so growing up I was aware of the body and medication and diseases. Ive also been to the doctor regularly. 
1	I got sick with pneumonia once, and was given lots of things to read about how I could have contracted it. I was able to read and understand them all, and throw them all out because none of them fit.
-1	Fatty liver deposits and the effect from drinking. Milk thistle supplements can help this and get the numbers back down where they should be.
1	I experienced swollen tonsils with white pus, went to the doctor and asked for a strep test because of my familiarity with the illness and likely exposure. She agreed, I tested positive, and she prescribed 10 days of antibiotics. I took the pill 2x/day as prescribed until I was out of medicine.
1	I have many times pulled muscles that I've self-treated using RICE. I have also self-diagnosed colds vs allergies. I've also modified my diet to improve my slightly high cholesterol. 
1	As a med tech i received my diabetes speciality which enabled me to administer the stick test for diabetes and administer insulin using a sliding scale.
-1	We took a health subject at school, and did a very good research task on health issues. It was very successful.
1	I visited my doctor recently to review blood test. I noted that my A1C is good for a diabetic, at 6.7 and she agreed. I then told her that my glucose meter was giving me morning readings of 175, and  asked for a new machine because the old one was not properly calibrated. I was right! The new meter just gave me a morning reading of 124, which is more realistic.
1	There has been instances of cancer, heart disease, diabetes, thyroid issues, and hormonal imbalances in my family. I have been around it all my life. It would be difficult to keep up at a family dinner without being able to understand or even speak up for yourself.
1	I have severe acid reflux.  I have taken several medicine to no avail and now I am asking for certain test to see if there is an underlying issue.  
-1	Whenever I take my children to their pediatrician for something other than well-baby check-ups (which is rare as my children are extremely healthy and do not get sick often), I'm always able to reiterate the doctor's information for my husband, who always has a ton of questions for me when he gets home from work.
1	I woke up in the middle of the night with an extremely sore throat and swollen glands. It is unusual for me to be woken up in the middle of the night by anything, so I was concerned and went to get a glass of water. It hurt to swallow, so I decided to see what my throat looked like. When I found that there were white spots on the back of my throat, I knew that it could be strep throat and went in to the doctor. The test came back positive for strep throat. 
1	A couple of years ago, I stepped off the front porch of my new home and into a hole that was covered in leaves.  It was instant blinding pain for a few seconds, then I crawled into my house.  My ankle was huge and I couldn't put any pressure on it.  Everyone insisted that I go to the ER, but I looked up how to test fractured/broken vs. sprained ankles.  Canada actually had a great write up on it, apparently ER visits due to sprained ankles seriously hurt their socialized medicine policy due to costs.  I did their tests, and correctly diagnosed my sprained ankle then treated it accordingly.
-1	When I was younger and my mom was sick. I did a lot of reading and research because I wanted to make sure my mom was going to be ok. I took care of my mom knew what medicine she needed. I knew when she needed it and when she had to go to the hospital I knew what to tell the doctors and nurses.
1	i went the doctor once because i was having some problems. i had googled my symptoms and done some research to see what might be going on. the doctor diagnosed me with the same thing that i had suspected i had, so i felt like i had done a good job looking into it myself
1	I fell out of a tree and hurt my neck. I didn't actually think I was hurt that bad but I made myself stop what I was doing and think about it.  Then I realized I could have hurt myself badly even if it didn't feel like it at the time. I ended up having somebody take me to the hospital (they didn't think I was hurt much either).  I ended up have a shattered vertabrae in my neck.  good thing i went to the hospital.
1	I don't really have any experiences that demonstrate medical knowledge.  I just try to do what my doctor and the government tell me to do to maintain good health.  Overall, the strategy has worked, and I feel that I am in good health.
1	A few years ago, I found out my dad had diabetes. Now we know more about it and my sister and I are more careful with our health so that we don't get it in the future.
1	I had a c section and a few weeks later after a long car ride my right leg was in a great deal of pain. It turned purple and swelled up. I went to the ER and said I had a blood clot and I was right.
-1	When my son was chocking I had to give him the hem lick maneuver.It was the scariest thing ever. Thankfully, it worked and the piece of hot dog dislodged from his throat. 
1	I actually do not have very much experience about any particular medical issues I have had many medical issues as have my family but we were so busy trying get to figure out how all the systems worked that it was hard to focus on the actual medical issues.
1	I don't have any extensive training or education on health or medical issue. My experience is very limited to just what I learn on the internet and from my doctor. Basic diagnosis of a typical cold, fever, flu are very simple to figure out. Any abnormal pain in the body will require a doctor visit. If it's just something I am not familiar with, a visit to the doctor will usually answer the question.
-1	When it comes to physical there are not that many. But it's more of the emotional ones that I have a better understanding of.
1	I once had UTI in a row within couple of months.  Before I sees the doctor the 2nd time, I research information from the internet.  I don't use FB, I use Mayo clinic or Wikipedia.  Anyway when I met with the doctor and I start to ask him questions and telling him about when I find from online.  His answer to me was, you possibly know more than me since you researched the topic.
1	My wife is a nurse so I often consult her if I feel like I'm in need of medical attention. I have seasonal allergies so it's not uncommon to have sore throats, runny noses, and coughing at various times of the year. Occasionally, those symptoms are very severe. In the fall, I have a severe cough that was not going away and she thought that it was just allergies. I couldn't take it anymore and felt that it was probably worse and went to the doctors - it was bronchitis.
1	After becoming dehydrated my heart was beating more rapidly and harder. After drinking plenty of fluids it went back to normal.
1	When my mother in law had a heart attack, one of the first things I did was make sure she had taken some aspirin. I know that, because it's a blood thinner, aspirin can help with heart attacks and improve people's chances.
1	I had a swollen lymph node a while back that was not tender to the touch, and I had no other disease like symptoms.  the doctor thought it was best to remove the lymph node and biopsy it for lymphoma.  the results were negative.
-1	Before I thought about having my last surgery I read online and in medical journals about the pro and cons of the procedure before having it done. I wanted to know the facts for myself before making that decision.
-1	I did take some courses on medical administration. But really my knowledge came from person experience thru my mom who had quite a bit of medical issues. 
1	I have a wife with severe COPD and a heart condition that developed while she was in the hospital for her breathing.  I spent many hours talking with the nurses and the doctors as well as on line researching her conditon.  I was able to visit with her for 12 hours a more a day while she was in the hospital and monitor the care she was given.  A few times my research paid off such as the time they wanted to clean her room and I had to ask them to not use areosal due to her COPD and the fact that the areosol triggered it.
1	I saw the history of weight gain within my family, and also saw that I was starting to gain weight. I decided that while I had not gained a significant amount of weight yet, and while my schedule best allowed for it in the stage of life that I was in (i.e., I had a lot of free time), I wanted to take matters into my own hands and gain control of my weight before it became harder to do so. I exercised and took better care in terms of watching what I ate, and was able to gain control over my weight.
1	My mother was very sick most of my childhood, so I picked information here and there from her pamphlets and also her doctors. Also, in college I was in a Physician Assistant program where I started to learn a lot about health and medical issues. To get into that program, I had to shadow a doctor or PA for 500 hours, so I also absorbed a lot of information from there. 
-1	The only situation I can remember right now is that once I helped my mother understand the instructions for a treatment that she needed to have at home
-1	Whenever I think about experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues, I think about my grandpa having a heart attack. I remember sitting in the living room of my grandparents house with my grandpa and grandma and then all of a sudden my grandpa started rubbing his chest and saying that he had a tight pain and I continued asking him questions and trying to figure out exactly what it was that was wrong with him and if he needed to be taken to the hospital and eventually, I told him that we needed to go because he was having a heart attack and it turned out that he had.
1	In my early 30s I got serious about taking care of myself. I started going to the gym consistently. I started building muscle, my cardiovascular fitness improved, I could do more activities without getting tired and stopped having dizzy spells. I started reading diet-related articles, reading nutritional labels and cutting out saturated fat and excessive sugar, and increasing protein intake. I replaced fat with muscle and my energy increased.
1	Several years back, I had an outbreak and tested positive for herpes. I knew that the virus can have long dormant periods so I did not jump to conclusions about my wife because it could have been either one of our previous partners that transmitted it.
1	I am diagnosed with schizophrenia and am fairly knowledgeable about the disease. I enjoy learning about it and having knowledge about it.
1	When my sister was very young she choked on a marble. I had my little brother start the Heimlich maneuver right away while I called 911.
-1	I have an auto-immune disease and I researched to learn what to do, eat and which medication would make me feel my best. I also spoke to others with the disease and got input from them as well. I also found a doctor who helped me understand my disease better. 
-1	I experienced tachycardia (rapid heart rate) in my early 20's. This ailment can be caused by a plethora of different things, and it can be overwhelming worrying about what the certain cause is. I did an immense amount of research on my own in order to better understand how to prevent this. Later in life, I met someone who experience the same problem, and was confused. I was able to provide temporary relief to this person because of my past knowledge and experience with tachycardia.
1	I try to stick to the healthy diet and exercise a couple of times a week to be healthy. So i don't really have a lot of experience of health issues.
1	When I delivered my third child, I went into the hospital knowing exactly what to expect. I was prepared to fill out all the paperwork given to me, had all my medications noted, and had a very seamless delivery since I had been through it twice before. I was even allowed to leave after one night instead of the usual 2-3 night stay since I knew what to do. 
1	I explained to a doctor how h. pylori causes gastric cancer and is considered a dangerous carcinogen by the World Health Organization.
1	I have to keep track of my dad's health information such as weight, body temperature, and medications after he received a liver transplant last year. The anti rejection medicine that he takes has to be taken every 12 hours for the rest of his life and he has to adjust the dosage based on his monthly blood work. I help him a lot because I want him to stay healthy and I enjoy helping him.
1	I am able to help my mother manage her blood sugar by testing it after a meal and ensuring that it is less than 180 mg/dl
-1	I have had testicular cancer before and I gathered all the information from many doctors.  I just support forums to gather anymore information.  I also reached out to people that I knew had cancer. 
1	All of the years I have worked as a nurse. Twenty years is how long I worked on  medical floor in acute care. Experience is everything.
1	When I recently went to the doctor for mild depression, the doctor discussed several different treatment options with me.  I was already familiar with the different types of medications used to treat depression which helped me to make a decision with the help of my doctor.
-1	Taking care of my mother's medical issues. She had lung cancer and never smoked a day in her life. Six long years and over 125 chemo treatments. spent a lot of time in doctors offices.
1	When I went to my last doctor, she remarked that I have done my research. This is because I asked specific questions about my illness which I only could have known had I done my research already.
-1	i am experienced in the knowledge of what you have presented me with to answer the questions that you are asking me. I have heard of these things or saw them in real life.
-1	I cant say for sure that I have had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I prefer to trust my doctor and/or nurses that are available to demonstrate their knowledge.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues happened when I discovered that I was allergic to barley. After consulting medical sources, I was able to communicate to food servers that I needed gluten free meals that did not come in contact with cross-contaminated foods containing wheat or rye.
-1	When I was pregnant with my daughter. I was given instruction to perform the test at home and needed to calculate my intake of sugar and carbohydrates. I was able to do it my self and I was able to understand everything
1	I had a nodule on my thyroid that I was concerned about. My daughter was diagnosed with thyroid cancer at 15, so I already knew a lot about the disease. It helped me tremendously because I knew exactly what to expect, as well as general information about thyroid cancer, thyroid disorders, goiter, etc. I knew that the lump was not normal, and I also knew that I should have a biopsy just to make sure.
1	I recently had to tape off of some medication. First by taking half my dose for the first 7 days, then  1/4 of my dosage for the next 7 days. After the first 7 days I also started my new medication. I was able to tape off the old meds and begin the new meds exactly as prescribed. 
1	I learned about medical issues through studying in college. I learned a lot by taking courses in exercise science, health promotion, and public health. Through assignments, lectures, and field work, I gained a much greater understanding of health and medical issues.
-1	When my dad was having stomach pains. I told him what medicines to take and what to drink to help calm the pain.
1	I can tell the doctors the side effects of many antibiotics and what drugs you shouldn't take with them. I know drugs in clinical trials that the doctors don't know about. I am the mother of two children with serious health conditions. This is a huge part of my life. I run a support group for others dealing with the same things. 
1	i noticed i had some sort of rash under my arm when i first started college.  i did some research online using several reputable websites.  i figured out what i probably had was a mild skin problem called eczema.  i saw that a doctor can prescribe a cream for this.  i made an appointment and my doctor prescribed a steroid cream and it worked great.
1	I used the best statistical anaylsis I could to determine the answers to the questions.  I really don't know how any medical knowledge would help in this scenario because these were all math problems.
1	My daugther had a recent bone tumor found in her fractured pinky. She was to have surgery by taking a bit of bone from her elbow to replace the weakened bone in her pinky which would also be filed down to remove the tumor part.
1	after a while of taking various medications, i did research on each one so that i could gain knowledge on whether or not i needed to keep taking each one, or whether i could lower the dosage. i used this knowledge to have an indepth conversation about the medications with my primary care physician on the next visit.
1	I've had 2 children delivered vaginally via induction and had stitches afterward. I take medication for depression and anxiety and hypothyroidism. One time I cut my leg open and had to get 15 staples to close it.
1	When my grandma was dying, I was able to identify when she was low on oxygen, with her hands being a few degrees colder, and her sleeping more and was able to make sure her oxygen stayed at an appropriate level.
1	When my mother was taken to ER and eventually died, I was asked after unsuccessful surgery (stroke to the bowels) if I wanted life support and I was smart enough to know that you cant live without bowels and I said no.
1	I know when i catch cold, what I need to take and what to do. I do not need to go to see a doctor while I had a fever.
1	When someone had heat stroke, I ran to them and figured out what was the cause. I didn't necessarily save their life but it definitely helped knowing what it was. 
-1	Not too long ago I was told that I had scar tissue on my liver.  This was caused years ago when my gall bladder ruptured.  I already knew what scar tissue was and how it could affect my liver.
-1	I have very little knowledge of medical issues. I am parent of two kids so I have had to use the little knowledge i have to take temperatures, treat fevers, upset stomachs and other ailments. My knowledge of head aches, which i have often has helped me with my kids in knowing what type of head ache they might be having and what could be causing it, whether it be dehydration or sinuses.
1	I have hidradentitis and once on a weekend a nodule swelled up to the size of a soft ball. I had to  go to an urgent care and while they were not educated in my condition I was able to coach them on the normal course of treatment.
1	For some reason or another, I frequently get UTI's, so I pretty much recognize the signs.  I was able to inform others what to do when they got them. I explained to them what to drink, eat, and whether or not they should go see the doctor. 
1	These examples shown in the survey were simply mathematical equations. Someone who has no experience with health and medical issues would be able to figure these out.
1	Not to long ago my mother in law was diagnosed with cancer.  She had to have surgery, and then some chemotherapy to make sure everything was good.  My own mother spent two and a half years doing chemotherapy.  She was diagnosed with stage 4 metastatic bone cancer.  I was one of her primary care givers while she was going through the chemo, and her eventual passing.  I was able to talk with my mother in law about chemo and the possible side effects.
1	I had been experiencing pain that some doctors told me was in my head. I had done research and was fairly certain it was a certain condition. I finally got a doctor to listen to me and they confirmed my thoughts.
1	My son was broken out in a terrible rash that ended up getting infected.  I told my wife that we needed to get him to a doctor immediately because I had had infections before and his skin looked like mine.
1	I was diagnosed with PCOS at age 18, so I know a lot about insulin resistance, hormonal issues, and blood sugar as I actively work to prevent myself from developing diabetes. I also worked as a receptionist at my endocrinologist's office for a year.
1	The other day at work my coworkers and I were discussing the flu because a lot of people thought they had contracted it. I had done some reading on the flu, knew symptoms, how long it should last, etc. but many of my coworkers did not. They claimed to have gotten the flu, when in reality they just contracted some sort of virus that had similar symptoms to the flu.
1	I can always google what I need but going into the doctors or having a checkup and having them tell me my numbers for blood pressure and heart rate I can tell that those numbers are good for me or not. I keep an eye on my blood pressure and have actively worked to improve it over the years.
1	the birth of my 3rd and 4th kids. from my previous experience and research i knew what was necessary and what was dr convienance
-1	I am a massage therapist.  Many times of the years clients have asked advice on nutrition, exercise, pain management and I have helped them work through their issues.  It is surprising how many people are not self-aware. 
1	When my husband was in a car accident I was able to use my cpr and first aid training to help him and apply pressure to his wound until he got professional help
1	When I worked in a physicians office, a patient told me that he did not understand his blood pressure. I explained to him how he had high blood pressure and showed his history. I saw that ate a lot of fatty and sugar foods and made no effort to improve his eating habits. In addition, I saw this his sugar level was high and that he did not have much physical activity. I went over all of the information with the nurse to confirm that everything I was reading was correct. She confirmed that the information was correct that I was giving to the patient. 
-1	I can't think of a time in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  (I am usually fairly good at figuring out my dog's health issues, but that doesn't help your survey results.)
-1	WHEN I FOUND OUT I HAD TWO CYST IN MY OVARIES, I FELT SCARED BUT WHEN I GOT ALL THE INFORMATION THAT I NEEDED AND WAS VERY INFORMED I FELT GOOD ABOUT IT. 
1	I have correctly self-diagnosed certain conditions I have had or still have such as an hernia and blefaritis to name a few. I took a nutrition course at the University that completely open my eyes about healthy eating and has helped become the health conscious person  that  I am today. I believe that nutrition course should be mandatory starting at middle school at least.
1	I was told all kinds of things by emergency clinics but they could not pin point a certain condition I had. For example, I would experience flu like symptoms for days and even weeks before the symptoms would slowly go away.
1	I visited a doctor at my college campus a few years ago. She told me I needed to diet, and asked me what I was eating. I had come to a realization that I had been eating too much fast food. When the doctor told me about a diet plan, I asked questions, and she seemed of the opinion that I knew what I needed to do. I follow much of her advice, and began losing weight in the first week.
1	About one and a half years ago, I visited the emergency room due to pain in my lungs while breathing. The staff figured out that I had pulmonary embolisms and a blood clot in my heart. I was given a lot of information and I was able to understand most of it without too much struggle.
1	I dont know much about health or medical issues at all.  Recently I found out that I have pmdd.  I spend a lot of time to research on this issue.  I'm taking some medication for pmdd right now.  I have paid very careful attention to how my body react to the medicine.  
1	When I broke a bone in my foot my blood pressure readings were high.  Doctors and staff tried to put me on blood pressure medications.  I waited until after my injury was healed and until after I was able to start jogging again.  My blood pressure readings went down, and I successfully avoid the blood pressure medications.
1	When I had my heart attack, I really did not have conventional symptoms, but I knew something was wrong. Though I am not one to go to the doctor frequently, I nevertheless called 911. The EMTs didn't think I was having a heart attack and told me I could go to the ER or not, depending on what I wanted to do. I almost didn't go. I knew though that something was really wrong. I elected to go and went into cardiac arrest before we got to the hospital
-1	My daughter had the flu to where she was hospitalized a month ago and the she got the flu shot and then a week ago she got the flu again.  So that really made think about what is really effective when it comes to prevention of things
1	I honestly don't have much knowledge of health or medical issues. I have chronic migraines that I take daily preventative medication for. I also have specific things I do when I do get a migraine so all of my medical knowledge is really about my specific condition.
-1	There was many times that i had certain symptoms and i would read in books or study online about the possible ailments. I usually figured out the specific illness myself even before the doctor could.
1	After each of three babies, it was important to bring them to their many well baby check-ups. After my middle child experienced some difficulty with weight gain (he was gaining weight but not at the amount expected), I was on alert for the same issue with my third child. Indeed, it happened to him too, even though he did not have the gastric reflux issue that my middle child had had. By being on alert for it, I knew to take it seriously when the doctor pointed out the weight issue, even before the doctor was seeing it as much of a problem. 
1	i was diagnosed with colon cancer when i was the age of twelve, some ninteen years ago. Since day one i kept a journal of each day that owuld include how i felt, what i ate, what if any medical procedures i had done that day and whatever medications i was on at that time. I took every oppurtunity possible to learn as miuch as i could in regards to my doses and not once over the past twenty years did i stop doing this
-1	After having two back surgeries, and seeing five different physical therapists, three epidural injections, two chiropractors, and drugs. I know more about my spine and the L-5 / S-1 disc than I ever cared to know. 
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my mother was complaining one night of having weird visual hallucinations of small bright lights. I took her blood pressure because she has a history of high blood pressure and it was about 170 systolic. I was concerned because her baseline systolic was around 130 on medication. Because of my knowledge, I was concerned that she may be at risk for stroke and her blood pressure was very high. I retook her blood pressure because if you get an abnormal reading, you should always recheck under the same circumstance. She had a headache also, so after rechecking her blood pressure was still around 170 systolic. I told her that we need to go to the ER because I was concerned about how high her BP is and her risk of stroke. She also smokes cigarettes, so her risk is increased. Her symptoms could have been dangerous and the abnormal visual hallucinations could have been aura for an oncoming migraine, but I didn't want to take any chances. I took her to the ER. She ended up being fine. 
1	One time I was discussing an abnormal looking mole on my friend's arm.  He was concerned it might be melanoma, and I told him about the ABCDEs of melanoma.  I told him he should definitely have it checked out because it exhibited some of these signs.
-1	Almost everyday I have to help friends out with some kind of medical or health knowledge, I'm actually really well studied in this subject. I just am not good at math. I can't say there's been many situations in my life that I have actually had to put use my medical knowledge,  cause honestly I haven't really done much or been in situations that people could end up injured.
-1	The heart doctor's P.A. said that I seemed to know a lot about heart issues after I asked several questions related to a condition.
1	My son recently had a high fever so high that I decided to take him to the doctor. After answering the nurses and doctors questions, he was given a prescription for an antibiotic and ibuprofen. I had to remind the nurse that I had already given him a dose of ibuprofen, so he could not have more.
1	I have been on clonazepam for years (for insomnia). Due to a mix-up, the prescription lapsed. Due to the fact that I had been on the drug for so long, my body experienced withdrawal. It was strange that I needed to hold onto the wall of the shower to take a shower. Fortunately, I have not had a similar problem. Got to the doctor asap and got the prescription re-issued. End of withdrawal, which can be scary even if you know what is going on.
1	I was having recurrent infections, but one of my previous doctors keep telling me it was a yeast infection, but the symptoms I was experiences are more like bacterial infections.  I try the medication but as I know the infection doesn't go.  Then I go a natural local and buy medications that treats that kind of infection and after a couple of days my infection was gone. 
1	When I was younger my doctor thought I had pulmonary hypertension, so when I went home I did tons of research. When I went to the specialist after that, he was very surprised that I knew everything I did and that he didn't have to explain things to me because I already knew about the health condition.
1	I do not have any such experience in which I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues. Only one such situation when I was able to diagnose that my friend was showing symptoms of chicken pox which was in fact right.
1	I knew something was wrong with my eye and I kept putting off getting it checked out.  I figured if i ignored it that the symptoms would go away.  I tried to put it out of my mind but couldn't silence the feelings of dread in my body.  My symptoms werent severe but something in the back of my mind told me that there was something wrong.  So, I went to the doctor and I was correct....it wasnt just a simple procedure
-1	this was hard some of it i knew but some i have never experinces before so it made it hard but i learned alot from it 
-1	I recently broke my leg. The doctor has to describe the break to me and how to treat it. I understood the words he was saying the context behind the break. 
1	A co-worker had a family member that had a medical diagnoses ad was told by the dr they could not have that diagnoses because it would have been cause for emergency surgery.  I informed this co-worker that it was absolutely possible the diagnoses was correct and that there is a small population of people who have the same thing and because of  other medical issues they may have they are not a candidate for the surgery right away.
1	I have been to the doctor several times for various conditions. I have two kids that have gone to the doctor for check ups and conditions as well. My husband has bene hospitalized for a condition.
1	Both of my parents were frail and infirm for years up and until their death. I took care of them. The had an assortment of ailments and had many doctors and medications.
-1	When I was in the army I received many physicals and vaccines. I would ask the doctors many questions about the vaccines and I would later share the information with my fellow soldiers.
1	I had my appendix taken out and I was able to self diagnose what was causing my pain and I new about what was involved in the surgery.  
1	When I had my children, the first two were normal, easy pregnancies and spontaneous vaginal deliveries with no complications.  The babies had no problems and I was able to breastfeed easily.  My last baby had health complications during pregnancy (elevated blood pressure), during delivery (preeclampsia) and postpartum bleeding and trouble breastfeeding.
1	My first child was born with a cleft palate which led to othe finding and countless doctors, also multiple surgeries, many times medical professionals expressed that they where impressed with my grasp and understanding of things given the fact that I had no medical training.more so if I informed them I did not even have a full and proper high school education.
1	I believe I was able to effectively evaluate a time I was having a panic attack in turn because of that I knew what I needed to do to get out of the situation. I was accepting and knowledgeable that i was prone to these things and took steps to help identify when they were happening. 
-1	I had a lump in my breast and I was concerned because it felt abnormal. I called the doctor and had to describe where it was and how it felt and when I noticed it. If i hadnt known that information then the doctor wouldnt have been able to find it or tell me it was benign.
-1	It has been a long trip with that for over the year I have rarely been ill and the couple time I spend a lot of time researching what and why and can it be resolve forever
1	I had breast cancer a lot of years ago. At least I had the sense to go to the doctor when I found the lump, I guess, but the rest was kind of all Greek to me.
1	My grandpa  fainted, he has diabetes. I tested his blood sugar and i t was really low. I gave him some orange juice and he woke and was fine.
-1	i had a mamogram with a false positive , it came out false twice. the third time it was good . i took a fourth mamogram and still good, so its very easy to get a false positive
1	Prior to visiting my doctor about my digestive problems I had already done a lot of research about different reasons for the symptoms. This allowed me to explain everything thoroughly so that my doctor knew what was best for me. 
1	When my wife and I recently had norovirus we were able to avoid spending money and going to the doctor or hospital. I knew that we should avoid eating for 24 hours and ride it out and then slowly start eating again. We also cleaned the house to avoid catching the virus again.
-1	since i was a kid i've had asthma. over the years of dealing with it i've learned more about it and what i should avoid (like a lot of exercise or colognes and perfumes). So if I go somewhere and i notice someone spraying cologne or perfume i know to stay away from that area for a little bit or if i'm exercising i know to take it easy and always have an inhaler with me.
-1	There was a time when I pulled out my back and thought it was going to turn out to be a serious injury, but it turned out to be a minor pull and I didn't really need to treat it any further. 
-1	I told my doctor what was wrong with me. I also told him the medication that I needed. I was right about the diagnosis. 
1	I had two back surgeries in my life for herniated discs.  I read a lot about the surgeries and about the condition so I could do my best when meeting with the doctor.  When the first surgery was done I was a novice and only knew some things but by the time the second surgery came along I was an expert.  When he showed me the x-ray of my discs I actually cut him off and told him what the scan showed.  I said there thats the bad disc and that portion needs to be removed in order to alleviate the pain.  I was right and he was somewhat impressed because it was different than the first surgery I had just read so much and looked at so many pictures that I knew what I was talking about.  I also knew that for this surgery they would need to use staples while the first one they used stitches.  
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues would be a summer day with high temperatures outside. I helped hand out water and keep hydrated so people would not have health issues.
1	I was able to know that my son was having a manic attack. After his diagnosis of bipolar disorder, the next time he started with non-stop talking and behaviors that were unusual I knew to get him to the ER.  The issue was not going to resolve on its own.  The laughing at inappropriate times was not a joke, it was a sign of mania as well.  He wasn't just having bad behavior, this was a serious illness.  
1	My son was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes at the age of 6. I was already someone who counted calories and read nutrition labels so my experience there made it easy to measure his portions and count his carbs accurately. My experience taking care of him also makes me knowledgeable in other areas of a healthy diet for our entire family.
1	I have had 10 surgeries. I am a breast cancer survivor. I am an audiologist and have worked with doctors, in hospitals, in rehabilitation centers and at the Emory Clinic in Atlanta.
-1	based on my gut feeling i tried to choose the best answer.  To the best of my knowledge without using google i chose the best answer 
1	I know that when I am having reflux at night I should lie down to sleep with my head/chest area in an elevated position, otherwise the reflux will get a lot worse.  This happens to me occasionally. 
-1	I was with a friend of mine some years ago. He suddenly vomited and began breathing very rapidly and collapsed. I knew immediately that he was having a heart attack, and began CPR as he wasn't breathing. 
-1	A few years ago, I was diagnosed with basal cell carcinoma which is a form of skin cancer. I was told that along with avoiding the sun without sun screen, I could use a prescription cream that would bring the skin cancer cells to the surface of my skin.  
1	My husband's LDL cholesterol was consistently high.  His doctor recommended a few simple dietary changes to see if it would help.  I researched on my own and changed our diet considerably, and he was able to raise his HDL and lower his LDL by a drastic amount.
1	When taking over the counter pain medication. I am allergic to a name brand prescription version of ibuprofen, knowing the generic names for this allows me to avoid medications that contain it. Being able to read medical ingredient lists.
1	I had a detached retina. I had an op, the nurses were about to give me the instructions on how to use my eye drops and what I needed to do, but there was an emergency on the ward and they were needed. I wanted to go home but before they would let me go, they insisted I have the talk from them. I summarized all the things I needed to do and the care I needed to take and they agreed I already knew. So i could go!
-1	When I have a friend who is having a child ask me about symptoms and pain and I am able to understand and give her answers
1	My mother had cancer and I visited and talk with many doctors and I made many researches that help me to understand a little bit more some medical issues.
-1	In my twenties, I developed for the first time, symptoms of colitis.  I was told I would have this for the rest of my life and that only medication would keep it under control.  I began studying the different medications and reading what worked best and what didn't work for people with this condition.  This also lead me to learn about the role of probiotics in helping with gut flora which seems to help people with colitis.  I was able to bring this information to my doctor and he gave me a prescription only probiotic which has helped immensely.
1	Just last night my daughter said she had a sore throat. I looked at it with a flashlight. There were whiteish/yellow patches on her tonsils. I told her she may have strep. I know that the first thing a doctor asks when you take a child in for strep is if they also have a cough, which she did not. That's an indicator for them to actually do the strep test. Since she didn't have a cough, the doctor did the strep test on her this morning and it was positive.
1	I noticed that my son was having issues with breathing. After some determination, we found out that Abuterol seemed to help him resolve the issue.  Knowing that the medicine is typically used for asthma sufferers I knew this wasn't a situation of a cold and needs to be evaluated by a doctor.  After a consultation, it was confirmed that he indeed had Asthma.
-1	I haven't had any experience like that, but my father had open heart surgery and I wsa there to care for him after he came home from the hospital.
1	One time I ate shrimp and I started to get a rash around my mouth and had some slight swelling in my face and I pulled out some benadryl  and took that because I knew that was good for allergies.
1	Several years ago I had to have a hernia repaired. The pre-examinations were considerable, and included three different blood tests. My employer's insurance covered the procedure, and I spent a great deal of time working over the details of the forms with the HR person. Post-surgery, there were many follow-up visits, and of course more forms to file. It was well worth it but far from simple.
-1	When I had a fever, I self-medicated and I realized that it really worked and heal, it was a good thing because I had never self-medicated before
-1	Before I graduated from high school I enrolled in a magnet program school. This school allowed us to get hands on experience in the fields we found interest in. I always wanted to be a doctor so I got to experience what being part of the medical field was all about. I learned a lot and as a result continue to learn more and more about health care. 
-1	Everyone asks me such things. If I do not already know the answers I find them something related on line someplace. My girlfriend has a daughter who had such a question for me about depression. The kid complains of killing herself these day. She was on zolof, before that prozac. The kid is 15, and been on this shit for several years. I told her to get the kid to a real doc asap and sue the quack that put her on prozac. 
-1	I have health related work experience. I worked home health/personal care/hospice for 12 years. I have also taken some medical classes in college. 
1	My ex was a hypochondriac, so I was always learning about conditions she thought she had and trying to reassure her that she didn't
-1	I HAVE HAD CANCER TWICE AND I ALSO HAVE DIABETES.  I STRUGGLED WITH INFERTILITY AND DID IVF 3 TIMES WITH NO SUCCESS. I HAVE A LOT OF KNOWLEDGE IN ALL THESE AREAS DUE MY PERSONAL EXPERIENCE.
-1	Taking care of my dad and learning about all his medicines and what they were for and how to give them to him.
1	I had to be knowledgeable about health issues when my dad had cancer.  We had to follow the doctors instructions after his surgery and during his rehab time.  My knowledge was demonstrated by perfectly following his post surgery instructions and his speedy recovery.
1	I'm afraid that most of my health knowledge comes from Google. I can recall that I once wanted someone to eat papaya seeds when they had an upset stomach. People thought I was crazy.  I lived in Hawaii and took a chemistry class in high school. I learned that there is apparently an enzyme that is highly concentrated in papaya seeds that is good for an upset stomach.
-1	I guess like in that last question, When I suspected I was having an ear infection come on. I had prior experience in ear infections and have somewhat experience with them. 
-1	I had gastric bypass surgery a year ago. Six months ago, my sister decided to have the surgery as well. I've been able to walk her through from beginning to end. And I had first hand knowledge of what she goes through and feels. 
-1	There was an incident where a young family member had a severe nose bleed and their parent was holding their head back. I told them they should pinch their nose and hold their head forward in order to prevent vomiting because I read an article that it was the right thing to do. 
1	My mother was searching for something on the bottom of a metal shelf, and as she stood back up she banged her head badly on the lower shelf. She was bleeding profusely, and panicking because of it. I explained to her that it looked worse than it was because the blood vessels on our scalp are so close to the surface, even a minor cut can produce a lot of blood.
-1	When I was pregnant with my third son. My whole pregnancy and deliver was completely wonderful and I believe it was because this was my 3rd time. I knew what to expect and what could or couldnt happen.
1	Recently my son cut his toe on some scissors. I cleaned the wound and bandaged it. Then took him to the doctor for stitches. 
1	I was a biology major and I learned a bit about health and medical issues. I also went to the hospital
1	Several years ago, I was vomiting and having severe abdominal pain. It felt different than just the flu or any other common illness. I had suspected that it was appendicitis, so I went to the hospital and the doctors confirmed that it was appendicitis. 
1	I had a problem with my fingers. After a little bit of researcher I was able to diagnose my problem. I went to the doctor and they gave the same diagnosis.
1	When I went to the pharmacy I used one of the blood pressure monitoring machines and my blood pressure was sky high.  I went back a week later to check again and it was still high so I knew this was bad and have been treating it since.
1	My son was born hypoxic, so I learned as much as I could about children born with hypoxia and what other conditions could result from such a diagnosis. It turns out that my son's brain was damaged at the cortico-visual area, and suffers from CVI now as a result.
1	Many years ago I noticed something was wrong with my husband and sent him to the doctor multiple times. Every time they sent him back and said he was fine. Until years later, he saw another doctor who immediately sent him for an ultrasound. He had testicular cancer and had a tumor growing for the past several years. All I knew is if they couldn't tell me what it is, they couldn't tell me what it wasn't-- they had to check.
-1	A time in my life where I demonstrated my knowledge of health was when someone fainted during an accident. I proceed to do CPR to revive the person.
1	I am a physician, I attended medical school, completed four years of residency, and a one year fellowship. If I answered these questions incorrectly I am going to be crushed!
1	When I had acute bronchitis and acute sinusitis. I was sick for months and kept telling people it was that (since I get it a lot) but people doctors included, kept saying it was just a bad cold. I mean, I know myself and I knew it was bad. People at work thought I was just calling out for no reason until I brought the note from my doctor, who was going to put me into the hospital if the last of 4 antibiotics tried did not work. It finally took breathing treatment, CIPRO, and getting a swab up my nose before I finally started getting better. 
1	Have a chronic condition now for over 20 years. Am also full time caregiver for my mother, so between those two things, I am pretty confident in meeting our specific needs and understanding what those needs are. 
1	This was when I helped self diagnose thst I had an ovarian tumor that needed surgery People did not believe me just telling me it was a smallcyst  thst would go away. but I was persistent until I got the surgery and it turned out I had a 4cm tumor that was hemorrhagic
-1	I was given the wrong prescription dosage according to my weight. The doctor had it put on the container but I knew it did not sound right so I called in and I was correct. I had done the math according to what I already knew.
1	Learning about Melanoma and helping my wife understand the treatment for it. We got thru it and she is good now. 
1	Recently when my mother was in the hospital I had to explain her condition and the fact that she had MS to doctors and nurses. 
-1	Times that my kids or niece have gotten hurt and i've had to decide what to do to help them. From applying pressure to deciding if it is hospital worthy. 
1	When my dad was taken to the hospital for heart problems, I was able to interpret and translate all information that was given by the doctors
1	My daughter fell and spit her head open pretty bad.  She had blood everywhere.  I was able to locate the wound, clean it, and apply pressure.  Once she was under control we went to the hospital to be put back together
1	I took care of my father when he was in his 90's full time for several years.  He was on several medications and he had in home health nurses that came to visit our home.  I learned about his medications and what I should do to keep him healthy and I demonstrated my knowledge by carrying out his care.  I learned what his diet should be, when he should take his medication, and many other things about general health. 
1	I used to work as an assistant in a dentist office many years ago. My primary duties included sanitizing work, but I was also able to shadow the head dentist on numerous occasions. 
1	Most if not all of my information that I get about health or medical issues I get from my doctor or my friend who is working to be a medical professional. Any questions I have in those subjects I ask them. Rarely do I get information anywhere else. I think I have moderate amount of knowledge about health and medical issues because of what they have told me. I wouldn't call myself an expert or anything close to that. I will still continue to get my information from medical professionals. All in all there's no experience I can say that shows off my knowledge. I just get a piece of it time from time.
-1	I always have been very careful at getting valuable information on health issues. This is the reason I always have a solution when it comes to people who suffer from something and need advice.
-1	my grandfather had diabetes and as a child i would watch him give himself insulin shots. That is what sparked my interest in the medical field. Last January I enrolled in a medical course where i learned how to measure liquids in a syringe, how to read needles (cc's and ml) as well as how to do medical billing for hospitals and doctors offices.  Since learning this knowledge it has enabled me to have intelligent conversations with others as well as help myself be more knowledgeable about my health and the health of those around me
-1	I had to go to the doctor last year when I was having upset stomach and feeling very anxious. The doctor thought it had something to do with my kidneys, but I just had a feeling it was anxiety. I think I was right because it went away when the stress went away.
1	Early in my career I assisted in giving cardiac stress tests.  This included learning that if a patient achieved a certain stage on the test even if they had CAD, their prognosis was statistically equivalent to someone who did not.
1	I was told one year ago that I have type 2 diabetes which does not run in my family. Neither am I particularly fond of sweets so I did some research and found that chloresterol reducing medicine that I have been taking some for about 6 years now has been linked to the onset of diabetes. I have stayed on top of this relationship as well as keeping well-informed of diabetes as a whole so that I can better deal with this health condition.
1	My dad has battled Hep. C for the past 2 decades. He was apart of the testing group for the recent drug released that cures Hep. C
-1	I was experiencing pain on my right side along with indigestion.  I presented the problems to the doctor and said I was probably having gall bladder issues.  After tests it was confirmed.
-1	I worked in a speech and hearing clinic and I would often need to read audiograms and patient information. Many clients had medical problems I needed to understand.
1	A few weeks ago one of my children became sick.  I began to monitor his temperature.  When his temperature went over 103 I decided to give him a cool bath and prepare to take him to the doctor if that did not lower his temperature.  After the bath his temperature was down.  I continued o monitor his temperature and give him children's Tylenol until he felt better.
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health related issues recently when my friend had back problems. I told her what stretches to do to improve the area.
1	I was a CNA for a number of years and had to take in service trainings on a regular basis. I also have a large family with lots of medical issues to address
1	I was in a bad car accident several years ago and have had multiple abdominal surgeries up to this point.  I can and have talked to the doctors about what previous surgeries and procedures were attempted, why they theorized they failed, and I know what options I have to treat my underlying issues moving forward and have explained these during the consultations.
1	When I was pregnant, we found out my son was breech, and could not be turned because he was stuck in on one side, the doctor was explaining the c-section procedure, but I was already familiar with the procedure because my wife, who carried our other children, had already had one.
1	I brought my husband home from the hospital, after telling the nurse he looked worse then when he got in the hospital. She insisted he was okay. So I took him home. My mom said she didn't think he was gonna make it. She was a nurse at a old folks home for 40 years and knew what people should and shouldn't look like. I was so tired I slept a couple hours and then took his pulse and blood pressure. It was so low Im not sure how I got him to the car. But the doctor said to go home, put him to bed, he'll be fine with the meds we gave you. He was in ICU for 4 days and then in the hospital 10 more days after I just brought him home. If I hadn't paid attention he'd be dead.
1	I have my Master's Degree in Chinese Medicine. In order to obtain said degree, I had to learn a good bit of Western Medicine. In the state I graduated in and practiced in I was considered a primary care physician. I was able to diagnose diseases and refer patients out to western doctors when I felt the need to do so. I have learned a good amount about health in general and medical issues.
-1	There have been several times that either me or someone I know has gotten sick or hurt, and I have treated it myself long enough to drive to the doctor's office. When I get there the doctor says that I treated the problem correctly.
1	I had a physical a few years back, and the blood test results showed that I am anemic. This explained a persistent low energy over the years. Iron supplements were prescribed, and it was explained to me that they would improve my results cumulatively, and that anemia is due to not enough oxygen reaching the organs.
-1	I google the web everytime sometime to learn about some common medical conditions, so over the years, I'm gradually become more adequate in diagnosing some certain health issues
1	i got a bump on my gums and my neighbor said it was an abscess and i would need a root canal but i knew better because there was no pain so i waited until it went away and didn't waste money going to a dentist.
-1	I learned tons of information regarding various treatments when my grandmother was diagnosed with stage 4 breast cancer, I was her primary caregiver during that time and was present at all medical appointments.
1	Anything I know about health comes from  my own research on health issues.  I do not come from a super health conscious family so it was not something I learned growing up.
-1	Basically anytime I'm sick I know that it's because I've been in contact with sick people and they passed it on to me via some form of contact.
1	When I went to take my test to sell health insurance. I studied very hard and I passed it on my first try. It wasn't easy, a lot of tough questions were involved.. But I managed to get it done and it really proved how much I knew because I passed it and got my licence. 
1	I recently was diagnosed with a UTI. I knew from the symptoms, the constant urge to go, burning after urination  and full feeling that it was more than likely a UTI. I went to prompt care and was diagnosed with a UTI and given antibiotics. I was actually suffering with the symptoms for over a week and hoped it would clear up on its own by drinking plenty of water but it only got worse. 
-1	I have been going to the doctor for a long time know and I have taken a lot of health classes in my lifetime. Therefore with my combined experience and knowledge I feel comfortable addressing certain medical issues with others. 
-1	I can't really think of anything that describe an experience, but I guess the awareness to know when to go to the doctor and when not to. 
1	any of the doctors I have had over the years had little to no knowledge of the type of kidney disease I had and I was forced to explain my condition and provide littiture about my illness 
1	When I was pregnant, there were a lots of tests that were done.  I understood all of what was told to me, and was easily able to follow all the directions for taking whatever I was told I had to take.
1	I raised four children and have two grandchildren, so over the years I have known dealt with illnesses and injuries. I have learned common treatments and known how to research and communicate with medical staff.
1	My aunt was diagnosed with diabetes after she retired from work. Through this period, I helped her to properly measure her insulin and inject it and I also made sure she kept on top of her pill medication and prescriptions. I often took glucose readings for her and explained how important proper eating and exercise was for her condition.
-1	I was diagnosed with an enlarged prostrate. The Dr. gave me thorough education. I also did my own research and developed a healthier diet. Eating clean and organic food.
-1	The only thing i can imagine with my minimal knowledge was when my youngest had over come their bought with the hand foot mouth disease and a friends children contracted it at their daycare. I was able to advice her what we had been advised, the benefit to her was a reduced down time in illness. Her children seemed to get well a bit faster, maybe because i had been able to give her advice on what helped us. I do not have a lot of knowledge nor have i had many sitiuations present themselves for knowledge to be gained... yet!
-1	When my sister was little she had a lot of issues.The doctor would diagnose her with inner ear issues (not infection) to behavioral issues, but I read about sensory processing disorder and thought it sounded like what she might have. I told my mom about it and she asked the doctor how to get her tested. The doctor said it was a made up condition to explain behavioral issues but my mom asked for another opinion. That pediatrician referred her for testing and she not only got a diagnosis of SPD but a few years later we found out she has autism. If I hadn't pushed my mom to have her tested it she might have missed out on early interventions and her sensory issues would be labeled behavioral.
-1	When I was diagnosed with IBS I had to learn how to change my diet first and foremost. I had to do some research because at the time I was told it wasn't a disease and could not be treated (ten years ago). I had to figure out what aggravated my condition and learn to cope with it.
1	I'm not sure what this prompt is asking. I think when I take my kids in to the doctor, I feel that I'm reasonably rational and calm. I feel like I don't immediately jump to the worst case scenario, though that is what I want to do in my head for myself. I
-1	I mean, most of it is common sense. I'm no where near as knowledgeable as a doctor. For the last 10+ years, instead of spending a bunch of money to go see someone who is only worried about getting through the day, I will just look online. If something weird is going on with my body, I will look online and gather knowledge. 
1	I went over the paper work when bringing my daughter into this world.  Filled out all the insurances.  Worked with my wife in signing documents in the hospital and squared away every issue the doctor brought to us.
1	I am unsure of a situation other than when I get sick, I know which type of medicine to get depending on the symptoms. I also know I do not need to go to the doctor when I have a cold or sinus issues. 
1	when the doctor told me of my arthritis and ha i would have to do to cope with this condition and how to live with it.
1	When my sister was diagnosed with ALS and we had to learn as a family about this disease and how to care for her in the best way possible.
1	I got food poisoning and could not even keep liquids down for days. It got to the point by the third day if I couldn't keep down water I knew I would have to get someone to take me to the hospital because I was extremely dehydrated.
1	I went to the doctor and they told me I was at high risk for high blood pressure. They told me to decrease my intake of salt to a certain degree but didn't explain further. They also told me other factors can relate to HBP but didn't further explain. I had to rely on the internet and was overwhelmed. 
-1	 this cancer people effect not taken all over world. it is most people must died.Cancer is a group of diseases involving abnormal cell growth with the potential to invade or spread to other parts of the body
1	I'm not sure if this really counts but a while back in college I noticed that I had put on significant weight and I was more out of breath than usual. I also noticed that I became a lot more thirsty and lazy than usual so I stopped and considered my risk factors. I know that my family has a high history of diabetes and hypertension (and high cholesterol), so I took it upon myself to buy a blood pressure monitor and measure my blood pressure over a period of a week. It was not favorable, so I talked to a nutritionist and made a healthy eating plan as well as an exercise routine. By monitoring it further, I successfully decreased my blood pressure significantly and it has remained in safe levels since I have continued my routine.
1	I honestly don't really think that I have any. Outside of regular checkups I haven't ever been to a hospital. I guess the closest thing would be that I have a daughter, and I've had to read and talk to doctors about her. However she's only been to hospital once for something other than I regular checkup so I don't know how much experience that really gives me either. Overall I think just my general ability to understand things is probably my best experience.
1	I once had a painful, bleeding (and puss) coming from my backside. I did a bunch of research on my own before deciding that I 100% had a pilonidal cyst. I went to the doctor and he confirmed the diagnosis. I had outpatient surgery.
1	Last year I had an extremely sharp pain in my gut on the right side. I thought that I might have a kidney stone. I knew that it could be serious, so I went to the hospital. I ended up having a kidney stone, but it would be passable. They offered me opiate pain medications but I decided not to take them because I know that they have addictive properties.  I ended up passing the kidney stone several days later.
1	I GAVE BIRTH TO 2 SONS, AND BOTH BY VIRGINAL BIRTH. I ALSO BOTH TIME GOT THE EPIDURAL TO HELP WITH THE PAIN. I AM LUCKY THAT I AM NOT ALLERGY TO ANY OF THE DRUG SO IT'S FINE FOR ME TO GET THE EPIDURAL.
-1	I avoided catching diabetes by exercising and eating correctly for most of my life, its is health problem that runs in my family. 
1	My doctor prescribed some pills for me. Before taking the pills, I noticed that the pharmacy gave me the wrong dosage. I returned the pills to the pharmacy without taking any of it.
1	I had a situation where I had athlete induced hematoma. Because of this past experience I was able to recognize when I was having a side effect from that in a future event that happened.
1	I have recently been experiencing very bad insomnia. I discussed possible factors with my doctor, and asked for bloodwork, which came back normal. I started charting my cycle, my alcohol consumption, my diet, and also considering my stress levels. After three months of tracking, I determined that alcohol was the main factor. I stopped drinking alcohol, and my insomnia has gone away.
-1	My mother was diagnosed with breast cancer 10 years ago and at that time I didnt know much about it. Over the years I have educated myself all about it ans In turn that has given me the knowledge to take preventive measures for myself. A few months ago my aunt was diagnosed as well. Science has come a long way since I first learned about it so that knowledge that I had from the experience with my mom helped me to be prepared for any questions that my aunt had during her process and I think the fact that my mom went through it too help me as well to get through it.
-1	When I was 35 I was feeling really bad all of the time.  I fell generally unwell, dizzy, headaches, thirsty all the time, unable to sleep well and just feeling blah.  I had a weird feeling I was diabetic so I started to do some reading about it for a few weeks and got as much information as possible.  I then made a doctor's appointment and told my doctor what symptoms I had and why I thought I had diabetes.  My doctor was impressed with my knowledge and scheduled a test.  A couple days later I found out I was indeed diabetic.
1	This is difficult to identify. I can only describe it definitively as the moment that I had children of my own to take care of. I care so much about them that I learn about things that I would otherwise ignore. I want them to be healthy; therefore, I learn as much as I can about health and medical issues. While not objectively logical, it is a function of love.
1	When I go for sinus infections and bronchitis.  I always know that is what it is.  And I'm right most of the time.  I already know what treatments will be given.  I usually know how long it will take for the meds to kick in.
-1	I was prescribed a combination of 3 antibiotics. The doctor wanted me on it for 3 months. But after research and feeling sick I took myself off this combination. 
-1	Being in the military has given me a little bit more exposure to the medical and health issues. We practice a lot of medical procedures. Also going to Afghanistan has allowed me to work on casualities. 
-1	I have not had major medical issues, I'm not sure how to answer this question. I guess I know about eating healthy and some about how the body works, but not really medically related.  
1	Recently my elderly aunt fell in the snow and suffered frost bite on both hands. After spending three days in the hospital burn unit, she was discharged home with both hands bandaged. The next day I went to visit her and saw that her hands were in poor condition. She had removed the bandages and several of her fingers had open, weeping wounds. I thought a couple of them might be infected. She refused to return to the hospital. Later a visiting nurse came and confirmed possible infection. She also convinced my aunt to return to the hospital. Fortunately she was able to make a full recovery.
1	I worked in a rural hospital that served as the local area cancer treatment center on the weekends.  I would sit for hours and register patients for treatment the following day.  I would have to file lab and xray results into their charts.  This was before everything went paperless.  I spent a lot of time reading notes and diagnosis because I worked a lot of second and third shifts.  I was still in college and I tried to make the most of my time when I was a work.  
1	One time I was not feeling well and I was able to go online and look up my symptoms. The tentative diagnosis I gave myself matched what my doctor thought.
1	"I was told I have high cholestrol and needed to make changes to improve that. I knew that it meant i had to get my bad cholestrol ""LDL"" to below 100 and the good cholestrol ""HDL"" to above 50."
1	I wasn't feeling well and I went to the doctor. I had been feeling extremely tired and lacking  energy. I wondered if I had mono so I ended up going to the doctor. I ended up having mono, so I guess I was right.
1	while at a restaurant, a patron was signalling that she was choking after eating a chicken wing. i recalled learning the heimlich maneuver in school, and i was able to successfully perform the procedure.
-1	I had hep c. I was told there wasn't much to be done by my PCP. I then heard on npr a new drug was now available called sovaldi. I found a new Dr who put me on a program got the drug approved, and after taking the 3 drug regimens cocktail I was cured.
1	Once my gums above a certaion tooth became swollen and inflamed and it really hurt. I had no idea what it was but then I realized that a cavity that I had neglected to get taken care of was to blame. I went to the emergency room and they took an x ray and confirmed that it was an abscessed tooth.
1	My pregnancy required that I ask my doctor lots of questions about symptoms that I was experiencing. I frequently went to each appointment with a list of questions about what was normal and what was not. My doctor was impressed that I had learned so much about pregnancy and pregnancy complications.
1	Woman problem. I had my period for 8 months straight before my doctor got me into a specialist (gyno). I was quite confident when I was able to go back to my doctor and repeat what my gyno had said and understood what I was talking about. hyperplasia is the overgrowth of uterine tissue, which was causing that issue, but I also had multiple cysts at different times on different ovaries, but not in my uterus.
1	I had gained a lot of weight at one point, so I decided to lose the weight. I went on a diet and exercise program I made up for myself. I reduced my calories and fat consumption. Also, I decided to start running most days. I lost around 100 pounds in about 9 months. During this diet I was kept very close tract of my calorie consumption. I was ware of how many calories different foods have.
1	I was able to bring up some possible causes of what I may have been suffering from to my doctor. When they explained things I was able to easily understand and ask questions.
-1	I don't know , just accepting the fact that I have to go to a doctor and let them diagnose the problem seems good enough. The fact that I'm not someone who goes on the internet and tries to solve there own medical problems means I'm doing better than a lot of people.
-1	I have been Type 1 diabetic since I was 10 years old. This really helped when my nephew was diagnosed because most of my family is semi=aware of what to expect. My nephew still calls to ask questions sometimes and I am happy to help.
1	An experience I has that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues was when I cut my finger, and due to a rather large snowstorm, was unable to leave to possibly get it looked at. I went ahead and washed it out with hot water, and disinfected the cut on my finger. I also went ahead and elevated it slightly and applied pressure until most of the bleeding had stopped. I had somewhat skimmed the top layer of my skin off, so it looked a lot worse than it actually was, and in this situation I was able to control my thoughts and use basic first aid, rather than freaking out about the situation and causing myself to panic.
1	My brother was recently in a car accident and in the years preceding I volunteered by Special Olympics, therefore I understood how to work a wheelchair, transfer a patient from a bed to the the chair, and other such apparatus know-how. 
1	I have been dealing with persistent colds and respiratory infections and recently, I looked up what I can do to get rid of them and have been taking steps in making sure that I no longer deal with them.  I have been eating healthy, exercising and sharing my tips with friends and family.
1	I am not good with math, so I need someone to thoroughly explain such stats to me rather than depending on my math skills. Most doctors I have had are willing to do that. 
1	I don't necessarily have knowledge of these issues. Whenever I or my family members have issues I usually research on the internet or consult with doctors or people who have been trained in this field.
1	I had an auto accident a little over two years ago. I was rear-ended, and although I had no scratches or bruises, I did hit my head hard on the headrest and the rear impact caused pain in my back within the hour. I knew to apply ice and knew to rest until I could be checked out by a physician, which somewhat controlled swelling. Plus I knew to seek treatment immediately for rehabilitation and to reduce any muscle damage/scarring.
1	When I started working out I learned that muscle building is most effective when gaining weight. After researching the topic, I found that weight gain is decided by one factor only: calorie count. The weight u gain is the difference between the calories you intake and the calories you consume. 
-1	I was seen by an orthopedic surgeon for a chronic ACL tear and osteoarthritis in my left knee. I did physical therapy, and when I was released from therapy, he told me I'd be back in a couple years for a knee replacement. I told him not to hold his breath. Came home, and started walking longer distances - 4-6 miles a day. I lost 20 pounds, and took several anti-inflammatory and ligament strengthening supplements, and kept walking. That was 16 years ago, and I still have my knee, thank you. By the way - the doctor I saw needed to lose about 50 pounds.
1	Several years ago my father was in the ICU after being unfortunately caught in a store robbery. He was shot 3 different times and the medical issues were immense. I was successfully able to listen and understand the doctors as they were explaining everything to my family and I. Other family members came to me to explain it better in layman terms to them. 
1	My wife is a nurse and we have been married for nine years and she helps me understand all sorts of medical issues. Her along with Google makes things a lot easier to understand.
1	I had some heart related issues early on in life so I think I learned about cardio matters a lot earlier than most people which has helped me stay informed with health matters.
-1	I studied medical assistant program and it has given me some knowledge of various tests and procedures as well as health and medical issues. It has also helped working in this environment and from reading and office/hospital visits.
1	I damaged my toe nail. Based on a previous experience I understood that the doctors would only help to rip off the damaged nail. I opted to do this myself to save time and money.
1	every week, when we have exams, my knowledge on medial issues is tested in more ways than i can explain. Boards, are the ultimate test of my knowledge i guess, and thats in 3 mnths. 
1	I have borderline cholesterol issues.  So I have done a lot of research on eating properly  to keep that from going up.  I actually had it go down into a very normal range.
1	I hade to remove my gallbladder afte experiencing pain and found that I had multiple gallstones so I went through many tests and a medical medical surgery
1	In the past 1.5 years, I have lost 95 lbs. I had to pull from my knowledge of exercise and nutrition to achieve this. Additionally, I have had to understand how this affects my blood sugar, cholestrol, pulse, and heart rate. I have also had negative effects from my health goals in terms of exercise causing me injury and extreme pain. I have had to pull from my knowledge of how muscles, bones, and cells work to design plans that have gradual enough progress to prevent injury.
-1	An experience in my life when I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is in being able to assist when people are having seizures. 
1	I went in for a gastrointestinal issue and it was deemed that I needed a colonoscopy.  I was given a list of medications to consume in preparation as well as a process to follow for the surgery.  Without any assistance, I took the list and prepared myself for what turned out to be a successful procedure.
1	After tearing my ACL in 2012, I ended up re injuring it once again in 2013 and had to have two surgeries. By the second surgery I was already prepared with what I had to do for recovery and rehab. 
1	I had been vomiting every morning for 4 months. I saw 6 different types of doctors and none could give me a diagnosis or any relief. I did my own research and discovered Cyclical Vomiting Syndrome. I brought the empirical guidelines to my doctor and have had successful treatment since.
1	i was in an auto accident and fractured 3 bones in my hip pubis illium and ischium and because i had taken an anatomy course i knew exactly where those bones were.  And why i was in so much pain
1	I researched and implemented a medical protocol (long-term, low-dose antibiotic) to recover from the affliction of undifferentiated monoarticulating HLA-B27-related spondyloarthropathy, in which I eventually went into remission after 3 years (that was 20 years ago, so I'm calling it permanent remission), avoiding becoming a certain cripple with a compromised immune system, or dead, as my colleague's husband ended up, from T-cell lymphoma, having the same doctor as I but actually following his advice to take methotrexate.
1	I was a caregiver for my mother-in-law when she had cancer. So I would go with her to her appointments and I always took along a notebook and made sure to ask questions and write down the answers. It was really important that we understood and remembered everything that was said. I am not sure if this is the kind of answer you are looking for, but I believe that the communication between a doctor and patient is the crucial factor. My knowledge is that I know that I don't know, so I have to depend on my doctor's knowledge and expertise.
1	I understood helath issues when I got a UTI. My doctor fully explained everything that was going on with my health at the time. I told him I fully understood and took the extra steps neccessary to nclear up my issue. 
1	I was having knee pain.  First surgeon I saw recommended knee replacement.  This seemed extreme for the kind of pain I was having.  I sought another opinion and had microfracture surgery instead.  
1	One of my grandsons was pulling on his right ear one day.  He couldn't talk yet so I knew something was bothering him.  He had a slight fever and just wasn't himself.  I figured it was an ear infection.  We took him to the doctor and it was an ear infection.  
1	I had a growth on the side of my torso that became inflamed every 3-4 months. One time it got very inflamed. I didn't know what it could be, so I went to doctor to have it checked. 
1	I am a Standardized Patient for medical students and have been for over 15 years. I have portrayed a multitude of cases including blood clot, sinusitis, pregnancy, appendicitis both during pregnancy and not, gallstones, pediatric meningitis, etc, so I have a fair amount of knowledge above the regular person not in the medical field.
1	I've always had problems with cramping during my periods, and have had a history of ovarian cysts.  I had multiple exploratory surgeries to remove the cysts.  The cysts came on a cycle of approximately every five years, I would have surgery every five years to have them removed.  Finally after quite a bit of research and discussion with my doctor it was decided to do a partial hysterectomy and remove my uterus to see if that would break the cycle.  this worked for ten years, at that time I started getting the cysts on my ovaries again, with the pain being 75% of the month.  it was decided that my ovaries needed to come out to prevent this from happening.  By my doctor being informed on what the best course of action was for me I was able to keep my ovaries for a longer period of time, therefore not having to take synthetic hormones until absolutely necessary. 
1	I worked at as a physical trainer and had to help monitor heart rates and health concerns while people were exercising.  I was also trained in CPR.
1	When I was told I was pregnant. I immediately started taking folic acid, I scheduled my doctor's appointment, I stopped drinking alcohol, and I started trying to reduce my stress.
1	As someone who grew up with family members in the medical field and being around people who often had to take medication, I feel that I've had enough early exposure that I'm not uncomfortable around medicine. I'm also in pre-nursing at the moment so some of the pre requisite classes I've taken as well as advanced reading I'm undertaking have given me some insight and knowledge into these kinds of things
-1	I was eating a lot of food in the past and I was gaining a lot of pounds. I noticed I didn't fit into my clothes and my body was changing as in body weight. I began to exercise and decrease my food intake to the point where I lost a lot weight.
1	When my brother got a frost bite I had to help him warm up his insides and outsides to prevent the frost and cold from affecting his body.
1	My son when he was young began choking on a grape in a restaurant.  I was able to perform the Heimlich Maneuver on him successfully.
-1	I had to be proactive when talking to my son's doctors about a medical course of action for him due to his kidney issues.  
1	When my children ran high fevers, I would take them to the Dr.  When one child got the chicken pox, I knew what the symptoms were, and was able to tell when my second child got chicken pox because they exhibited the same symptoms.
1	It was several years ago when I was dealing with a snake bite that a friend of mine received while we were out on a hunting trip. Knowing that it was a rattlesnake that had bite him, I knew how to handle it, keep him calm, and do what I needed to do until we were able to to him to the Emergency room. 
1	I was recently in a car wreck last year and went to see the doctor because I had pain in my back and neck. I explained to the doctor that I had a previous back injury (bulging disc) from a sports injury and that I had pain in the same places but not as severe. After we did x-rays and and MRI he explained that there was no serious damage done to my vertebrae and I fully understood the situation because I had been through it before.
1	The only thing that I can really think of is a time when I developed pneumonia.  As I stated earlier in the survey, I never go to the doctor unless I'm sure something is wrong.  I felt myself over the course of a two week period becoming less energetic and more and more out of breath doing simple everyday things.  I continued to go to work during that time assuming that my body would defend itself and I would snap out of it.  When I coughed at work and expelled a mass of oddly colored phlegm, I new something wasn't right and went to the doctor that afternoon after work.  That's when I was diagnosed with a form of walking pneumonia.  I hope that's near to what you're looking for.
-1	My husband was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes close to a year ago. We both have become very educated on eating healthier and also managing insulin levels. 
1	When one of my kid is sick, I have to trust my knowledge of health in deciding when they need to see a doctor or if we can treat their illness at home.
1	I had cancer. I had to learn and adapt very quickly. While I went through treatment I had to trust my doctors that they were being open and honest with me about my cancer.
-1	I have always been a fast learner and exceptionally bright. For this reason I read most things I found lying around the house when I was a baby. I also try to keep track of health issues as they arrise for myself or family should the need arise to seek additional care.
-1	I would have to say that an experience that I demonstration my knowledge on health and medical issues would be when I gained 15 lbs in a year and decided that was way too much.  It was caused by a medication I was taking so I requested to get off that medication, started walking fast everyday and lost the weight. 
-1	I am a runner and when I received injured to my foot I would study resources relating to the anatomy of the bones and muscles in my foot so I could pinpoint what was going wrong and how to fix it. Later on, when I would go to my podiatrist, they would explain possible symptoms to me. I was able to hold a comprehensive conversation because I had learned much about how the foot works and learned the jargon necessary to convey a detailed diagnosis.
1	I started to develop a rash on my arm/wrist and visited a dermatologist to help determine the cause of the rash. In preparing for the visit, I listed out foods I had recently eaten as well any outdoor activities that may have had me come into contact with any plants or insects. In talking through the situation with the dermatologist, I mentioned that I had eaten a cherry pie very recently to which he noted that certain red dyes in such foods can cause random rashes. Since all other foods I had eaten were not out of the norm and my activities did not bring me into contact with any poisonous plants, we were able to determine that that pie consumption was the most likely root cause.
1	My knowledge about health issues, starting with myself, was when I had my wisdom teeth pulled under general anesthesia at the age of 22.  I also had a cryosurgergical procedure done following an abnormal pap smear.  Cervical cancer runs on my mother's side of the family.  I've had a C-section, Appendectomy, Gall Bladder removal and taken care of my mother with dementia to her last days on this Earth.
1	I have a thyroid disorder and through much research and dr visits I am able to tell exactly where my thyroid level should be for me to feel my best.
1	My mother had Parkinson's Disease and I unfortunately had to learn about Parkinson's Disease and he stages of the disease itself. 
-1	I was overweight for a period in my life.  I did what I could to lose it by eating healthy and working out.  I got obsessed with staying fit.
1	I have learned that to reduce your weight and improve your health is to reduce the amount of fats and carbohydrates in your diet.  So I changed my diet to reduce those types and food and I reduced my weight and improved my blood pressure.   My plan is to continue you this year since I want to lose another 20 pounds.
1	Discussing high blood pressure and its relationship to weight made it clear to me why I should lose weight. I very well understood the stress that extra weight puts on the heart and blood vessels.
1	I recently had a medical scare where I thought I was catching a serious cold. I had a high temperature and was extremely sick. I knew I should go to the doctor immediately so I did so and got antibiotics. 
1	I have been to the doctor for a concussion and was aware of many of the possible issues caused by having a concussion prior to the doctor explaining them to me.  The concussion lead to a few complications that I was unaware of, but learned about them and have been able to deal with them because of the information I learned and received.
1	I used to be a medical transcriptionist. My grandmother had gotten home from a doctor's appointment and had not understood what exactly they were telling her. Upon hearing what the doctor told her, I was able to explain some terms to her that she didn't know what they meant before.
1	I was told by my doctor to get a shingles vaccine but since I had already thoroughly read the warnings on the prednisone pamphlet that the pharmacy gave me I knew that someone taking prednisone had to be off of it for  at least 6 months before taking any live vaccines.  Knowing this saved me from having a severe case of shingles.
1	I don't know if I could do that the best I can come up with is that I know some good ways to prevent myself from having a seizure and I can also feel when they are coming on in time for me to get somewhere safe. That is pretty much the extent of my knowledge I don't know how to do much that is not related to that is pretty much my life.
-1	I ripped the tendon in my arm from the elbow to hand, when I went to the emergency room they wanted to xray the arm, I told them several times it was not a bone, however, the xrayed it and found nothing wrong, after going to my pcp and having an mri, he found the tendon was ripped. I worked as a pharmacy tech for many years, so when people come in with a fever, that you can alternate between tylenol and advil every 3 hours. I can usually help my friends when something is wrong by giving them advice about what to take, such as my friend had hurt her knee and was having trouble walking on it, so I told her to take ibuprofen and ice it, the next day she was able to walk and went to the dr.
1	I can't think of anything particularly demonstrative. After experiencing certain conditions, I am better able to determine whether I am experiencing the same thing again or having a new experience.
1	Every time I have an extreme pain in my back flank then I know I have a kidney stone.  Then I get to go to the hospital, have the nurse completely not trust me thinking I'm addicted to pain killers so I get to sit in agony until they finally believe me.
1	I was a registered Surgical Technologist, So I've taken classes that pertain to health and surgery. I've also had family members that have had lots of medical issues. 
1	I have no situation that meets this criteria.  I have never encountered such a situation that can relate to this question. 
1	A few years ago I fell on the ice and broke a rib. I did not go to the doctor. I believe that a rib needs time to heal and that there was not much a doctor could have done for me.
-1	When buying groceries I always look at the ingredients and calories on the back of it. I also try to make sure I dont eat fatty, high cholesterol food.
1	My mom was getting really sick and I was taking care of her.  I needed to know everything that I could about what was being told to me by the drs and nurses so I did quite a bit of research on the internet about her condition so that I could better understand what they were talking about and what tests they were running.
1	"I took my mother to see a neurosurgeon for a neck problem. It was a different doctor that I had used. After her exam, I showed him my hand and explained what was going on and told him where I thought the problem was. He looked at me and said, ""You are exactly right."""
1	I have had several issues come up that have landed me in the hospital either on emergency basis or for surgery. I had mono my last year in high school that put me in the emergency room and urgent care. I also had a horrible ear infection that resulted in 2 different ear surgeries over the span over 3 years. 
1	I had a kidney stone when I was 8 years old and I was in the hospital for 5 days with them having no idea what I had going on. I also had 5 miscarriages in my later years. They couldn't figure out what that was caused by either. 
1	I haven't had one because my family doesn't believe in doctors and I have no health insurance because that's for people who actually have money.
1	Losing weight and calculating how many calories I needed to eat, what to eat, and how much to exercise to keep my appetite satisfied and fuel my body demonstrated my knowledge of health.  I also always make sure to wash my hands whenever I go out in public.
1	My daughter has a food allergy, and I often have to explain the specifics of eosinophilic esophagitis.   It is not a simple process, so having a solid understanding of it is essential
1	When I became very tired all the time, muscles were very weak, it hurt to even sit for long periods of time and I had headaches frequently I suspected my B12 levels were low.  I asked the doctor to test that and it did turn out to be very very low.  Took a supplement for some time and recovered.
1	A few years ago I had a blood test that showed a slightly elevated blood glucose level. I was told I was prediabetic. Because of this I ate better and more healthly, lost a bit of weight with exercise. Because of that I was able to lower my levels. 
-1	I was asked if a certain diet would work and I did know for certain that it didn't work because asked about the same thing from my doctor. I thought it was neat that I was able to explain and answer why it didn't work.
1	When my boyfriend got a sty on his eyelid, I told him to place a hot compress on it and not to place his fingers near his eye. His eye healed within the next day.
1	I advised a friend from discontinuing a prescription drug because of severe side effects that they didn't know were associated with the drug because it wasn't in the pamplet provided.
-1	Before I  was diagnosed with Essential Tremors, I knew something was not right. So to avoid cutting my throat while shaving or spilling anything else I was trying to put into my mouth. I went to my doctor to see what was going on and if it could be fixed. Not fixed but controlled, that works for me. 
-1	Recently, my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. I accompanied her to several of her appointments and was able to help interpret some of the information she was given, as she was very overwhelmed.
1	I have several fruit allergies including bananas, kiwi, strawberries, and grapes. As a young child we did not know this. When I would eat any of these items individually I would get a mild upset stomach however one day my mom gave me bananas and kiwi cut up on a plate for a snack. After eating most of it i had shortness of breath and hives on my chest. I knew I was having an allergic reaction and needed help. I've seen an lergic reaction from my cousin who cannot have milk but one day decided to try it. I let my mom know and she gave me benadryl which countered the symptoms.  
1	I had taken antibiotics and got sick for months afterwards. I was able to present the information to my doctor and he agreed that it was correct .
1	Both of my parents have experienced cancer diagnosis, so I am more familiar with some of what they went through.  Sometimes things are normal, then the next day something can happen that will change your life.  To understand the options is very important to me, so I have read books and talked to doctors to help me understand the options in each situation.
1	There was one instance where I burned my hand with 700 degrees of solder and it hurt like hell. I went to the doctor and I learned all about burns and how I actually treated myself better before the burn got worse.
1	I have broken one bone in my life, my collarbone. When that happened I knew what it was and went to the dr and followed their advice of using a sling and taking pain medication at the specified intervals. They also said they dont often reset broken collarbones anymore cause there wasnt much evidence of them healing better by doing that and it causes a lot of pain to reset that bone so we didnt reset it. 
1	My son has had medical issues since birth.  I have brought up possible conditions, on more than one occasion, that doctors were not concerned about or not going to test for.  After testing, he was diagnosed with that specific condition(s).
1	My daughter had her blood work come back and the doctor said that everything was fine. We got home and I got looking through her paper work from discharge and I seen that one of her lab results was higher than it should have been according to the paper. I called her pediatrician and she said to bring her in. Come to find out my daughter had a serious infection that the ER doctor had missed. 
-1	I've worked in a hospitalfor 2 years, currently working at a family practice as a medical assitant that works with 2 doctors and a nurse practionoier. I plan on going back to school to become a nurse so i will be able to freshen up on all my medical leraning.
1	I haven't had many medical issues in my life so I don't have an experience to draw on. My mother is a nurse, so I tend to not go to the doctors office that often as I go to her for advice. 
1	My friend hurt his arm and i quickly informed him that it was not brokern because i was able to tell it was not.
-1	it would be when i found out that i had diabetes and i had to take a certain amount of insulin and it took a bit of knowledge about medical issues to do so 
1	I was trying to gain muscle. I knew I needed more calorie intake than calorie burn in order to gain weight. I ended up gaining about 20 pounds in muscle in a few months.
-1	I don't have any experiences in my life that I can remember that can demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues in my life. Unfortuanetely I am not able to think of anything 
1	Those were tough at the end. I really got most of my knowledge from my schooling. I was going to go as a pharmacist but ended up just going for biology and chemistry. I also have had some severe stays in the hospital upwards of a month from my brain injuries and I worked in a hospital for a year.
-1	I basically read and studied any material that I have come across on medical issues and diseases. It's crazy how you are more knowledgeable than some mainstream doctors. 
1	I took CPR and Basic First Aid and my family very often asks me - and sends photos - about injuries, rashes etc. I don't know a lot, but I am often able to calm their fears.
1	My sister was extremely concerned about a lump she found in her leg.  She called me very upset and scared.  I told her that it is very likely just a cyst and not anything cancerous and to not google it.  She went to the doctor and found out it was just a cyst, as I had told her and she was fine.  I don't really have much experience with anything medically serious, so this was the only example I could think of.
1	In high school, I did my health presentation on atherosclerosis and that taught me a lot about causes of plaque build-up and how the body manages it through a mixture of LDL and HDL fats. It was a half hour presentation and I used visualizations on a computer to illustrate the process. That project also showed me how I could use better sources of information that were available to me, like Nature and Scientific American to get a detailed understanding of health processes.
1	Well, one time I was with my friend who was high and I noticed he started having what appeared to be symptoms of an anxiety or panic attack. I assured him that he would be okay, (he thought he was having a heart attack). 
1	I was having some issues with feeling sluggish and foggy and had to have a ton of tests done. I went through all of the information about the tests that my doctor had ordered so I would know what I was getting into
-1	I work in healthcare so I practice my knowledge for health and medical issues on a daily basis it is my passion and Im very proud of my work field.
1	My daughter has Chiari 1 Brain Malformation. We've been to many different emergency rooms and doctors offices where the staff and doctors were not familiar with her condition. We have had to educate many doctors and healthcare workers about Chiari and how it is treated. 
1	I was a caretaker for both my mother and my father in the last years of their life while managing my own health issues.  I had to learn many skills while caring for both my mother and father like how to change, service a colostomy bag, measure diabetic sugar level, maintain.  Also had to care for my own bipolar 1, meetings, etc. Dad had dialysis as well. had to learn all of that.
1	I had that heart problem several years ago and though it wasn't the cause of my problem, my cardiologist advised me to reduce my salt intake. I now know a lot more about sodium content in all kinds of foods & what is the recommended limit.
1	I went a course on how to provide cpr to a paitient no I am ready for when ever anything happens to one of my family members in order to administer CPR. I know that it can revive someone having a heart attack, and my father has had a heart attack so just in case it happens again I can bring him back to life again. I also spend a lot of time with my grandmother so it will be very useful to know this knowledge beforehand just in case anything happens. I highly recommend everyone taking a CPR course and learning about what it can do for people in danger.
1	I have diabetes II. I met with a nutritionist who taught me how to eat right to keep my blood sugar levels good. I learned what to buy & eat. She was right. When I eat the right foods my blood sugar is great.
1	Well, I had my first child almost two years, prior to getting pregnant with that child, I had an early miscarriage and learned that I also likely have PCOS which could make it difficult to get pregnant again in the future.  Prior to being diagnosed with this I did not know about this issue, but now through those appointments and talking with a couple of friends, I feel like I know a lot more.
1	I was told that I am underweight for my height, as such that I needed to eat more. As such I had decided to exercise in regular intervals as well as I did not want to experience negative side effects associated with overeating. So with the help of online resources I formed a meal plan that fits within a recommended nutritional profile/caloric intake for my body size. As with the previous questions it involves some light mathematics and a bit of research, but it is very much worth it knowing that I am in as much control as I can get in the maintenance of my health.
-1	It was one time when a friend of mine felt very bad and we had to do something immedialety to make him feel better. I took some alcohool and immediately noticed he was feeling better.
-1	When I was younger I babysat for a friend of mine who neglected to tell me that her children just got over chickenpox.  Because of my age, she thought that I would have already been exposed to it.  At point, I had spent very little time around children and during my childhood, I was not often around a  lot of children because I grew up in the country.  On my way home from her house that night, I became very ill and knew right away that I needed medical care because my body did not react in the normal way this illness would have affected a child. 
1	A doctor gave me a prescription and said to take a certain amount of mg for 10 days. The math did not add up. I would have needed another full bottle to fulfill the directions. I called and was told that I needed a second bottle for my prescription
1	I can't honestly think of any situation like this, I rarely go to the doctor or have any medical problems. I suppose just knowing that a pain in a certain spot on my back could be a kidney stone counts but I only know that because I've had one.
1	My wife had breast cancer.  At diagnosis, her radiologist discussed her ultrasound, and I asked for him to elaborate on the shape of the lesion, the smoothness of the edges, blood vessel involvement, etc.
-1	Everytime I go to the hospital I always demonstrate my knowledge or medical issues because my doctor always asks me and I have knowledge about it.
1	I have had two prostate surgeries. From speaking with my PCP, the surgeon, and my own research, I went into them knowing what to expect. There were no surprises. Although the first was successful, I was in the low percentage group that had recurrence and required additional surgery. That was successful and I have not been bothered since.
1	Most recently, our newborn was having mucous and traces of blood in her stool, and because of our prior experience with our first child, we knew right away this was an allergic reaction to dairy/soy protein in my wife's breast milk.  We cut dairy and soy out of her diet and she perked right up in a few days and her stools normalized.  
-1	I was studying to be a massage therapist and a client came in with serious back problems. They asked me what muscles I would work out and if I could help address the issue and possible fix it. I had to learn anatomy to be able to work on clients so I worked on a specific muscle group I had learned about in class and they felt much, much better after I had worked on them. It definitely helped learning anatomy, otherwise I would be of no help to anyone.
1	Prior to my first spinal fusion, I had a list of questions for my doctor. He was surprised at the amount of research I had done in order to be informed. I asked specific questions about the XLIF procedure that he had proposed and what the difference in recovery times and success were in relation to other procedures. I asked specifically where the bone marrow would be drawn from in order to create the fusion. We had a great discussion and he was happy to answer what he referred to as very intelligent questions.
-1	I just had an xray done on my back to see if my scoliosis has worsened, i now have a double curved. It's still not bad enough to do surgery but they recommend physical therapy or it may worsen over the next 5 years. Knowing the risks, I can't afford physical therapy sadly, but if it gets bad enough my insurance covers surgery.
-1	I used to teach mentally ill about their illnesses in a group setting.  I have a bachelors degree in psychology which helped in this.  However, I did a lot of research into the medical illnesses they had and also taught information about the physical illnesses as well to help them in all aspects of their lives.
-1	When my father was sick because of his heart and he was on warfarin i knew that he was not supposed to have anything with vitamin K in it because that makes it not work
1	Recently, I was bitten by an insect (prob. spider) and had a bad reaction. I realized from the swelling and coloration of my hand that I needed to see the doctor. She looked at me and prescribed medicine and drew a line around the problem area. I knew that she had given me something to fight the infection and I realized that she had lined the area so that we could tell whether the infection was spreading.
1	I had a strong pressure in my lower chest region. It turned out to be just gas and I was able to self diagnose. i went to the doctor anyways and they confirmed.
1	I had to get a blood test done to see if I could be diabetic. I had some signs and to help ease my nerves I was checked and given a clear bill of health. It just turned out to be a coincidence but I based it off of my dad and my aunt both of whom are diabetic.
-1	I have a son that is 2 years old so I make sure I know everything about what is going on with his health so that he stays in good health. I know what eczema looks like and how to treat it as well as what he should be eating and drinking to stay healthy.
-1	Because my parents and grandparents had diabetes, when my husband was diagnosed a few years ago, I had a basic knowledge of what to look for and how to help.
1	When I wanted to lose weight I decided to start tracking calories and macro nutrients. Previously I had never really paid attention to food labels but to properly track my consumptions I had to purchase a food scale and weigh my food and keep a journal. I was shocked out much I was actually eating as you assume the serving size is much larger than what it actually is. Watching my intake I was easily able to lose 5 pounds with diet alone before changing my exercise to lose more.
1	I had melanoma at the age of 28. In my fifties, I noticed a spot on my leg that looked suspicious. I had the mole removed and it was in fact pre-cancerous. I knew what to look for because I had it before.
1	I have to stop smoking since it might cause me to get lung cancer. I exercise regularly.  I eat healthy food. I have a medical checkup regularly.
1	I had a mammogram a few years ago and I had to come back because my breast where dense and they were not sure what they were reading. I had to havce a different test and everything was ok, they just needed a baseline.
-1	When I was told that I had cirrhosis of the liver stage 4, I knew where to look up the diet and treatment and what to do if it got worse.  I also found out what to consume and not consume 
-1	I have a son who has asthma and food allergies. I have successfully managed his health issues and am slowly teaching him to do the same.
1	I was able to convince a family member that there was a possibility that they might have the flu and pneumonia.  He was weak, coughing and getting worse by the day.  I made an appointment for him and sure enough he was diagnosed with flu and pneumonia.
1	I had a miscarriage. the dr was right away going to have me get a procedure, but there was no need for it. I knew this from my research... that it could happen naturally. When I told him that is what I wanted to do he said that is better (He never should have suggested it in the first place and I left him after that)
1	I have learned a lot due to personal experiences with family members. My father had heart disease, and my mother, a brother, and my son have all had cancer at some point, which caused me to research and learn as much as I could about their respective conditions.
1	One time, a friend of mine got sick. I went over to check on him and make sure he was okay and was able to get him to feel better by buying the right medicine, food and liquids he needed. That is about as much knowledge as I have and if I needed more, I'd have sent him to the doctor.
-1	I have asthma and my son has asthma. We were following the doctor's action plan but it wasn't working. I knew right away that he needed to go to the emergency room. He was admitted and they didn't start him on steroids. I told the doctor I knew he needed them.
1	There was a time where I was having serious sleep issues and problems keeping my energy level up. I pretty quickly identified it as not normal and that I needed to get it looked at, and was able to see a doctor for it. I was able to get a diagnosis for hypothyroidism to help with my energy problems.
1	When I was younger I  lost a lot of weight by researching the right foods and a good exercise routine, ( i have since put the weight back on). I looked up all the right foods to help with different things and was able to clear up my acne and lose a good deal of weight and well as increase my strength and stamina. I also help other member of my family get into better shape
1	As a teenager, I was correct in telling my mother to go the hospital based on her appearance. It turned out her blood pressure was dangerously high and she ended up being admitted.
-1	My daughter was diagnosed with laryngomalasia which was her airway not completely opened. She eventually grew out of it. When i took her to the hospital they did a good job in taking care of her and describing everything that was happening.
-1	Two years ago, I twisted my ankle, and it immediately started to swell. I could still bend my ankle, and walk on it, without much pain. I thought I had a sprain, and applied ice for a few days then warm heat. Within a two weeks the swelling went down and able to walk without much pain. 
-1	I am very sorry but this questions seems repetitive, I already gave an information that I do know how to demonstrate knowledge about health issues, so that in turn would tell you that every time I visit my physician I DEMONSTRATE knowledge always.
-1	doctors are not always right. i was in a nursing home at 35 and told nothing could be done. through my parterns research i was treated off study and walk totally unassisted now. 
1	Few years ago, one of my friends was seriously ill. He had to be admitted in the hospital. He was suffering from bone fracture. I had fractured my bones during my high school. So, I went to meet him at hospital. I told him about my experience. I told him not to worry too much as it would get better in few months. I also recommended him safety tips, healthy foods to eat. 
1	I had a hunch that I was a test subject for a certain rare disease and had to go through a lot of hoops because I couldn't exactly pinpoint what was wrong with me, it included a colonoscopy at age 21 and various other random bullshit since I had no idea what was wrong with me. I learned about various random problems and diseases that may have been unrelated until I eventually dropped everything and continued to live my life as if I didn't have any of those problems. Usually a doctors visit is really simple but I had one that made me rethink my health choices for a couple years in various ways. The disease was called PNH.
-1	I knew that i had something wrong with my uterus so i went to the doctors. They did a hysterectomy because i had a polyp as big as a grapefruit. They did a total hysterectomy because they weren't sure if it was cancerous.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health was when my girlfriend passed out due to low blood sugar. She became conscious and I instantly gave her candies I had nearby to bring her levels up and she slowly began to feel better. 
-1	When my friend asked me about the different kinds of birth control . He did not know about the other alternatives besides the pills. I explained what is available and how some of them work . I learned about the different birth controls from experience and larning online and from the doctor 
1	im not sure what to write here because i do not have a time in my life where i demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  
1	reading of a ct scan of my lungs in search of cancers or other abnormalities and having the doctor explain the purpose and function of lymp nodes and what leads to calcification.
1	I had a mysterious allergic reaction that I went to the doctor for. I was having a very delayed reaction (5+ hours later) so I started keeping a food log everytime this happened. I went to the doctor with my food log so I could show her exactly what food it was. I had also researched why the reaction to this particular food happens and what to do about it and talked to her about that. I went in pretty much knowing what the problem was just looking for a solution. 
1	My doctor felt a lump on my right breast.  I had to get a mammogram, sonogram and have a biopsy. Then I had another mammogram.  I got a call a day later telling me it was benign and nothing to be worried about.  I did research and asked lots of questions to the doctor and nurse.
1	many members of my family have health issues that I had to learn about to help them keep on track. I have had to look a lot of information up also to make sure my kids are going to be alright when they are not feeling well. 
1	I worked as a health unit coordinator for 25 years up until 2014 when I retired. A main part of my job was to have an extensive knowledge of medical terminology. I have worked in various departments in a large city hospital ranging from telemetry, medical/surgical and maternity.
1	I have had parents and siblings in the hospital a few times throughout my life, which has helped me gain experience speaking with doctors and nurses.
1	I recently went to the doctor because I had lost 20 pounds unintentionally. My doctor thought it might be related to a thyroid problem but I want to get my cortisol checked to see if it was an adrenal issue. She then ordered both of those tests. 
1	thankfully most of my knowledge of medical issues has been fairly innocuous things like how to tell the difference between cold and flu or what foods are best for sinus infections. 
1	My brother was diagnosed with Muscular dystrophy and I use to help with him by providing nurses who were unfamiliar with disease with relevant information on how to deal with certain that issues that arises with dealing with individuals with muscular dystrophy.
1	Regulating my blood pressure. I purchased a blood pressure monitor to closely track my blood pressure and realized that I probably needed medication to control it.
-1	I don't really think I have had this other than knowing when not to, or when to call a doctor depending on the symptoms I am having the temperature. I haven't had this happen other than this though, so I'm really not sure what else to say about it. 
1	I had a stroke when I was 22 and I was able to understand why it happened to me and what things I needed to get checked out so it wouldnt happen again. I actually was a big advocate for myself because I had a stroke, followed by a concussion and a seizure but when I woke up 45 minutes later I had no residual symptoms. I had to convince the doctors and radiologists to look for proof that I had a stroke and I was able to find evidence of it so we could figure out more about why it happened.
1	I was able to tell a coworker what condition that they might have. They told me about some symptoms that they were experiencing. I was able to help them reach a diagnosis. 
-1	A time I demonstrated knowledge is when I became pregnant again, and because it was my second pregnancy I was more experienced. I knew of the issue and what steps to take for each trimester.
-1	My brother was once hit by a car when we were biking to school, and the driver got out of the car to help him. I ran to his side, and made sure to tell my brother not to move his head/neck, and told the driver not to move him as well. I knew in doing so, much more damage could be done. 
1	I had major heart surgery in 2006 to repair an aortic aneurysm, replace an aortic valve, and install a pacemaker.  Within a month of exiting the hospital, I suffered a DVT and had a bout of ventricular tachycardia.  After 12 years of ongoing monitoring and medication, I have gained a significant knowledge of the state of my own health.  I have also had other surgeries, and currently suffer from an arthritic damaged knee that needs replacement.  At sixty five years old&lt; I guess it is just the cumulative knowledge that a person gains through these experiences which has added to my health knowledge.
1	After much research and review of my symptoms, I was fairly certain that I had multiple sclerosis. Soon after that, I was officially diagnosed with the disease.
-1	When I was pregnant and had to get prenatal care to prevent gestational diabetes.  I also I to get prenatal testing to ensure nothing was wrong with the baby.
-1	I had a pap smear come back abnormal once. I knew not to get worried till after I had it done again. I was right not to get worried about it.
-1	I somewhat have knowledge about my diastis recti. I would look it up on the internet before asking my doctor and I found out what I had because I didn't know if it was a tumor or cancer. My medical issue was easy to diagnose and I understood way more about it before going to the doctor
1	I once got a fever. I hydrated myself and decided to sleep early. I think that this helped me recover more quickly than if I had stayed awake. I also kept stimuli to a minimum so that migraines wouldn't happen.
1	I really don't have a good example.  I have become knowledgeable with MS because a friend of mine has been diagnosed.  I researched and become more knowledgeable on the subject because I wanted to help her. 
1	I went with my dad to a doctors appointment because he has high cholesterol. The doctor told him that he needed to lower his cholesterol to a certain level. After we left the office my dad looked at the results of his blood work and believed that his number was within the range of what the doctor recommended. I showed him that he was looking at the recommended amount and not the results of his test. His actual cholesterol was way too high. He would not have known that if i did not get with him
1	When I was shopping for food, I used my knowledge of nutritional information to select foods that wouldn't give me too many calories, excessive sugar consumption, etc. 
1	I noticed one tiny drop of blood in my urine a while back.  I had a long bout with bladder cancer years ago so I first made an appointment with a urologist for a cystoscopy.  That was negative so I then went to a gynecologist and it was discovered that I had endometrial cancer and I had a hysterectomy.  One little drop of blood would have been ignored for a time if i hadn't had the bladder cancer experience.
1	Lowered blood pressure by changing diet. Found foods I liked that helped lower my blood pressure thst I enjoyed eating. Grains, fruits and vegetables are good for you.
1	A handful of years ago, I was a bit overweight and decided to shed the excess through monitoring my calorie intake. I intentionally consumed around 400 calories less daily than I was previously taking in and lost the excess weight in a matter of weeks.
1	I started doing a lot of research when I started having children. So I became very aware of different remedies and modes of service out there.
1	I took the test to detect the presence of the prostate cancer antigen knowing the high probability of false positives.  I was prepared to consider not taking further action if the test came back positive unless further symptoms occurred.  The test was negative, so no decision need to be made.
1	There are none. You can require a minimum number of character if you want to but that doesn't change the facts. I have never had serious medical problems so my medical knowledge was never put to the test. I don't have any medical knowledge besides common sense in the first place.
1	Several early college classes tested us on human health and medical issues. I also studied psychology as my major, so if mental health counts, I graduated with a 3.5 GPA. I would say that my grade demonstrated an above average knowledge of health and medical issues. 
1	I was able to diagnose the issue when my cousins child was very sick. I was able to tell that she had early stages of typhoid fever and told my cousin to take her to the doctor as soon as possible because of the symptoms and the seriousness of the condition. 
1	After feeling very dizzy for several days I had tests done. My results came back showing nothing wrong. I knew I didnt feel right and while my dr said I was fine I pushed for more from him. 
-1	I hurt my lower back quite badly, I knew that heat would relax the muscles to stop my back muscles from spasming so much, but its wouldn't help with the inflammation. So I decided to take ibuprofen for the pain but also because I know its a NSAID.  After the pain became more managable, I switched to acetaminophen since it would be easier on my stomach than ibuprofen. 
1	I listen and learn when I go to the doctor. I read information on the internet and what the doctors give me. 
1	I have taken a few classes on basic health and medicine.  I have regularly gone to the doctor all my life and have done quite a bit of reading on health and healthy activities.  
1	After I went through puberty, I started getting migraines every day. Since then, I have seen more doctors then probably most people will see in their entire lives. Not a single one took my concerns seriously.
1	"This was many years ago but my mom kept getting these burning, itchy rashes accompanied by hot flashes in the middle of the night.  She went to an allergist that checked her for everything and told her it was allergies.  I was reading about vitamins one day and saw that high doses of niacin is used in cholesterol medicines and causes ""flushing"" as a side effect.  I asked her when she takes her cholesterol medicine and she said ""right before bed"" so I told her what I'd found out.  She had her doctor change her medicine and hasn't had an issue since."
1	I had a severe reaction to an antibiotic a few years go.  A few months after it happened, I filled out my paperwork at a specialist's office and marked that I was allergic to the drug.  I realized when they were printing out a prescription for me that it was the same drug I had put I was allergic to and pointed it out.
-1	For years I have had to take regular PSA tests to determine if I was susceptible to prostate cancer. I additon levels that have gone up and down, I had an enlarged prostate which is a problem in itself - it can affect one's lifestyle since going to the bathroom several times a night can lead to tiredness and other problems -  but not necessairly life threatening. My doctor originally put me on a medication that dealt with the problems caused by the enlarged prostate but being uncomfortable with certain medications (this one I would have to take forever), fearful about the cost and after effects, I took myself off after one bottle. To make a long story short, after two bladder stone surgeries, I eventally had TURP surgery to deal with the problems caused by the enlarged prostate and while it was painful, I do not have to take any life long medication to deal with any problems.
-1	I have read about mammograms doing more harm than good. I read about studies and made my own decision not to have one due to the false positives and stress that goes along with it.
-1	I was having very serious nausea for 3 weeks, I couldn't eat anything. Several people told me it was stress, or acid, but I knew it couldn't be that. I did lots of research and my symptoms were very similar to an under functioning gallbladder. I went to the hospital and had a test done, and it proved that my gallbladder wasn't functioning properly. I'm glad I went by my gut and not what others had assumed. 
-1	When my son was 17 he looked to pass out while playing cards with friends. But he was shaking with his eyes open. This to me was the sign of a seizure, so I made sure to put him on his side to keep his airway open so his tongue wouldnt block it and keep anything he could kick or hit away from him that could harm him till the seizure was over.
1	My grandmother was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and I learned a lot from spending time in the hospital and hospice with her.  I would ask the doctors what things meant in her chart so I had a better understanding of what they were doing,
-1	I was taken to the hospital not too long ago because I was having abdominal pain. The pain was so bad that I had actually fainted. The doctor discussed all the different reasons that I might be experiencing the pain.
1	When I had to talk to my mom about a rare lung disease she has. She doesn't know much about it and wasn't sure that she was getting the right treatment. I had to research it more, which I could do because I could understand what I was reading.
-1	My daughter was sick. She was coughing and sneezing and had a temperature of 102.4. Even though she had a cough and sneezing, she was behaving normally. I gave her medicine to reduce the temperature. Later on she started to act very tired. I called the doctor and they said that she was probably fine and wanted us to come in the next day. Then she started to vomit. I took her to the hospital because of her symptoms and she had a stomach viris. i felt that something was wrong with her and i did not want to wait until the next day.
-1	When  I was experiencing pain in my jaw I instantly knew that it was an infection in my gums rather than the molar itself. I began to search for treatments and cleaned in between my gums and found a chunk of food that was causing the infection. I then cleaned my mouth with an antisceptic solution and the inflation went away in about a week.
1	My son complained of numbness in his pinkie finger. I asked him how his neck felt and he said it was stiff from using the computer. I told him he might have pinched his ulnar nerve and to raise his computer monitor. He did and the numbness went away.
1	I have been a type 1 diabetic since the age of 23. This has required knowledge of a number of different body systems and medical specialties, to maximize my overall health state.
1	The flu hit my family last week.  We had our flu shots so our fevers weren't extremely high (less than 101).  The accompanying symptoms were severe fatigue, cough, nausea and an extreme sore throat.  I was concerned because in the past my children have had atypical symptoms for strep throat (pain, nausea but no fever). However, I knew that a cough wasn't typical either.  I watched my son's throat for a few days and there weren't any unusual signs until last Thursday night when white spots started showing up.  At that point, my usual wait and see on a fever and cough symptoms turned into a doctor's appointment.  I've learned to wait out viruses but not to mess with what could be a possible strep.  Thankfully it wasn't strep but I knew what to look for and be concerned from past experience.  
1	I once treated myself for a sexually transmitted disease by ordering antibiotics I had looked up (by affect to body region). I found ciproflaxin for my bladder and urinary tract, and I found doxycycline for my STD health. After looking up how long a trial is of each, I was able to complete two weeks of dosing both. I then paid for a std test at my University Health Center and I tested negative twice, to which I was very happy. In my opinion you don't need a doctor, it's just 99% of people (including myself) will never share the same knowledge as one and medicine in it's concentrated forms can be very hard to dose and apply to select cases. I am glad doctors are around, as anything more complicated than the pills would be beyond me.
1	My son had a sinus infection as a child and was having trouble breathing and my wife and i weren't sure what to do.  I turned on the shower, brought him into the bathroom and shut the door.  The steam helped clear his sinuses so he could finally go to sleep.  My wife was happy. 
-1	My experience of knowledge about medical issues is related to a heart condition I have. I am knowledgeable in general about it and about the medication I take for it. I know what the medication is supposed to do and what effects it has on my body.
-1	Honestly I probably get the most knowledge from watching documentaries on health and medical issues. Also two of my siblings are nurses and another one is in nursing school, so I never here the end of medical issues.
-1	When my mother passed out on the floor I made sure she was breathing. I did mouth to mouth CPR. I also ended up calling the ambulance because she was unconscious. 
1	I have kids that get sick sometimes and we always have to make a decision about when they need to see a doctor or when they don't. I use my past experiences and current symptoms to make that decision. 
1	"I am a mom of 7 children, so I often have to make late night ""diagnoses"" using the internet as my source. Recently one of my children had a sore throat. I googled it and found images. I looked in her throat and determined that it was strep throat by the white spots on the back of her throat. The next day I took her to the doctor, and it was diagnosed as strep throat. "
1	I have had eczema since I was a teenager, and I know that when I have a breakout that I can't control at home that the best thing for me is oral steroids. I have had doctors that have wanted to prescribe something else, but I usually insist that they give me the oral steroid.
1	I I had an abnormal cervical screening.  I was diagnosed with PCOS, inferitility, and IBS.  You just kind of pick up knowledge as you go.  The older I get the more I am diagnosed with.  You just pick up knowledge of your body as you go along.
-1	2 years ago i recieved my first mammogram.a couple days later they contacted me and i had to go in for another more intense one and also a sonagram. i was very upset of course until i read up on the subject and realized that it happened often to people the first time they get one.
1	I'm a personal trainer.  I train people daily on good health.  For example, i had a client today that was wondering about a diet.  I helped her get back on track by going over her intake 
1	well, I think this survey very much demonstrates my lack of health knowledge.  I can't figure the majority of these what % of people got false positives.  I just don't know.  I don't know that it really matters to me, the statistics of it all.
1	I tested positive for the hepatitis B antigen, so I was disqualified from giving blood. However, I know I did not contract hepatitis b, so I know it was a false positive, which can happen all the time with tests like that.
-1	When I took a long flight I ended up getting a blood clot in my leg. This helped me learn a lot about blood flow into the extremities and the damages a blood clot can have on the human body. I also learnt how to lower the rick of getting one in the future. 
1	I have an understanding of endometriosis pain, and getting endometriosis cysts because I have had them in my life. Before having kids, I never had any problem, but after my C section I developed pain that I could not control in my abdomen. After several tests I went in for surgery and ended up having a cyst.
-1	When my father developed blood clots in his legs - I was able to recognize the symptoms: pain, swelling, discoloration, warmth.  He thought he'd just pulled a muscle, but I convinced him to go to the ER.
1	I suffer from chronic migraines. I often found a significant tension in my neck when these headaches would occur. I suggested to my PCP that I might benefit from seeing a massage therapist. He agreed and we found the massage therapy would help alleviate the headaches some. 
1	I suffer from RSD and it originally started in my left arm and hand after surgery to repair a broken wrist.  Within 4 months of developing RSD in my arm my left leg started to swell and turn red and blotchy which is a indication of RSD.  My leg was also cold to the touch and very painful when touched which is a definite sign of RSD.  When I saw my pain specialist and he looked he would not believe that it was RSD because he did not believe it traveled, however after finding a newer board certified doctor in pain management he did diagnose this as the RSD traveling and also said it was not in the stage known as CRPS.  I trust my instincts and what my body tells me even if doctors may not agree. 
1	I was put on a new medication. When I picked it up I read the information sheet on it. I had some odd symptoms. I recocgnized them as side effects from te information sheet.
1	A time when I felt I had medical knowledge was when my child was very young. Her doctor told me that she had nothing wrong with her. I suspected she had a milk allergy and acid reflux. I took her to a different doctor and they confirmed my diagnosis.
1	I am a type one diabetic on an insulin pump and medication to lower my cholesterol. I go to my doctor once every three months for check ups  
1	I look up the side effects to my own medications to ensure that I am not having any symptoms that could result in me having serious complications in the future. A lot of major issues with medication start as minor ones.I saved my own life about a year ago knowing these signs. If I had waited any longer to go, or did not notice the symptoms, I would have died. 
1	My daughter fell off of a scooter and cut her leg open. There was a lot of blood pouring out onto the concrete. I knew that I needed to apply pressure to get the bleeding to stop and get her to immediate care as quickly as possible. She got 5 stitches in her knee. 
1	I started to be plagued by weakness, tiredness and shakiness, I noticed that the ends of my fingers were slightly blue/purple and remembered that that usually indicates iron deficiency, I started eating more iron rich foods and my symptoms went away in a few days.
-1	My leg was going numb and tingling. I looked at several websites for information, while waiting for an appointment. Turned out to be my sciatic nerve. It was remedied by keeping my wallet in my front pocket instead of sitting on it. 
1	I worked at a retail store. Customers would come in and ask me for advice about what medicines to take since I worked around the over the counter medicine section. I was able to recognize the problems they talked about and was able to successfully recommend medicines or supplements.
1	I had a sore throat for a few days. Then I looked at my throat and saw white dots and realized I had strep. I knew I had to go to the doctor.
1	Several months ago, I woke up with a Soren throat.  My glands were swollen, and when I looked in my mouth, I could see the tell tale signs of strep throats in the back of my mouth.  When I went to the doctor, he confirmed what I already knew - strep.
1	I've done a lot of research into aerobic exercise and improving your heart health. I even knew a few things about the way potassium effects your blood pressure that my doctor didn't know.
1	I was a psychology major in college so when I was diagnosed with Depression I knew what was happening to me.  It still affected my judgment and made me reluctant to seek treatment but when I did I knew I had to trust my doctors because of what I learned.  I knew medicine and therapy would be helpful for many with my condition but it does not always work for everyone.  I was more prepared for it than some others may have been in my position.
-1	After my mom suffered a stroke, I spent an extensive period of time learning about the condition and how to reduce its reoccurrence as well as the measures necessary to take if someone around you suffers from the event again.
1	A time when I got a very serious cut and knew to tie a tourniquet to reduce excessive bleeding until I could get to the hospital.
1	I have always believed to have reactive hypoglycemia. Doctors always told me I have low blood sugar but not as bad. Yet I lived with the risks and symptoms all my life. Finally 3 months ago after having a bad symptom, I found a doctor willing to do all the tests possible (unfortunate for me financially). He finally confirmed I have reactive hypoglycemia. And a lot of other health concern no other doctor informed me about before.
1	There is not many experience where I had to deal with knowledge of health or medical issues. At times I have to read nutrition labels, or sometimes in college classes I must execute hypothesis testing where the scenario is often a new drug attempting to fall below the 0.05 p-value threshold
1	I don't have any specific examples, any knowledge I have about issues are ones that I relied on the medical community for, I don't spend any time on these things because I don't want to think about the negatives.
1	My mother is a CNA and I have helped her study for her exams. I learned a lot from reading her books and helping her practice. 
1	I attended a number of medical appointments with my father during the process of his diagnosis with Parkinson's disease, and became comfortable advocating for his care.
1	Other than high school biology presentations, I have had to switch doctors and apply/appeal for disability and unemployment several times over the last 2 years. I successfully talked about my condition to Social Security and was awarded benefits. Also everytime I've switched doctors, I didn't have transferable records so I have to to recount details of my diagnosis. 
1	My mother had lung cancer and eventually was diagnosed with diabetes due to chemo and eat habits. My mother was not used to her new diagnosis so her sugar levels were up and down. From what I learned in school I was able to help her with trying to get it under control. 
1	A time in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was when I began to get the flu and I knew that all of the symptoms I had were those of the flu and my diagnosis was correct.
1	I was concerned about some pain my child was experiencing. He was running a fever and generally irritable. He has recently had a cold and I suspected it might be an ear infection because of the constant fussiness. It turned out I was correct and he had a bad ear infection.
1	When two of my three children had breath holding spells as infants. I knew to hold them upright so they wouldn't faint and get hurt. I knew to then give them fluids and rest after.
-1	In basic training we had to know cpr and how to decontaminate contaminated people, animals, and objects. It was fun, but also serious. Not knowing the right steps could mean someone losing their life or a more serious outbreak of the contamination in question.
-1	When I graduated from college I was hired by a pharmaceutical company that was inovative in heart medicines. I was educated extensively in this field.
-1	I gave birth by c-section. So I know the procedures for that and the way in which things are done concerning that. 
1	I've had health issues in my life and my family has also had health issues. I've learned most of my knowledge through having different experiences while going through medical things myself or with another person.
1	A friend had pain in her calf and thought she had a blood clot in her leg. It wasn't red or swollen, didn't feel hot to the touch. I told her I didn't think it was a clot. She went to the doctor and it wasn't.
1	One day I passed by a man lying in the street unconscious.  I recognized that glazed look on his face and came to the conclusion that he had a stroke.  I witnessed this before and am somewhat knowledgeable about strokes.  I immediately called 911 emergency and the came promptly.  They told me I did the correct thing.
-1	i was very dizzy and i knew by being told i have pots which causes issues with alot of a persons body so i knew that i had to sit down and drink water and go to the hospital  when i went i was dehydrsated and if yi stood up  wouldve passed out
1	I was sick, and I knew I was sick. I didnt have the ability to go to the doctor right away, but knew that I needed to because my illness wouldnt go away. I believed I had a bacterial infection. When i finally got to the doctor a couple weeks later, he said I had a bacterial infection and gave me the medicine to clear it up.
1	I recently starting experiencing very bad migraines.  I had to go through all sorts of tests to see what may be causing these sudden headaches.  I had a Cat scan of my head.  I also had blood work done to see if it was being caused by pre-menopause.  I learned a lot about my health during this process.  They never figured out the problem, but we did find a prescription that has controlled the migraines for now
-1	Due to previous health issues I was able to tell a doctor exactly what was wrong with me (type of infection) and it ended up being exactly that.
1	I guess an experience that would be considered knowledge of medical issues is when a friend of mine almost passed out because of his low blood sugar.  I was able to, along with other friends, get him to a stable position and get him a few crackers until someone was able to locate his insulin. This was a pretty intense situation.
-1	My son has severe eczema and food allergies and I have to talk to people who watch him a lot about his different meds and his epi pen and where and when to put his certain meds. I feel like Im knowledgeable in that sense of medicine 
1	When my son died and i didnt know anything about why or to help him with CPR  I vowed that I would learn more and learn about health issues  so I look things up
1	I assisted a relative in treated a flu, cough, cold by speaking to a doctor, reading online material regarding that diagnosis and preparing food for them to heal faster.
1	Well when I was in high school, we had this assignment where we had to volunteer at any store or place for a whole week. I picked a pharmacy in my neighborhood. I tried to help customers find the right medicine for them, while I was being watched by the pharmacist and he said I did a great job every time.
1	I have a degree from a culinary school and have also taken several courses on my way to becoming a nutritionist. My stepfather has gout and it bothers him regularly. My mother asked me to design him a meal plan because he does not eat as he is told and as such gout is an issue he deals with regularly. I worked with him and, based upon my knowledge of how to eat with and treat gout, designed a meal plan with food that he likes and was agreeable to eating. This made a noticable difference in his gout symptoms and issues.
1	A coworker was injured on the job. I have first aid training, I was able to assist them with their wound until medical personal arrived.
1	Probably the area where I know the most about medical issues is in terms of sexual activity. In college, I had to write a couple papers about the issue of sexual education, so I did plenty of research on the subject of STDs or teenage pregnancy. This is probably where I gained a lot of knowledge of health.
-1	I developed a blood clot in my twenties. When I walked into the ER I explained that I had a DVT due to the birth control pills I was taking. I had read the insert and I was correct.  
-1	I have a 2 1/2 year old so I deal with some sickness in him. I've only had to take him to the doctor one time when he was sick, because I know the ways to help your body fight the illness more efficiently. I do everything in my power before resorting to the doctor because there's only so much the doctor will be able to do. 
1	I used to work in a healthcare company in data analytics. So I would have access to all of the patient information and procedural information for the tristate area to run predictive analytics as well as other things. I am pretty familiar with coding and procedures from a statistical stand point and what it means, so the numbers make a lot of sense to me. Additionally, I come from a family of medical professionals so if i had questions about a certain procedure i could always ask.
1	When my brother in law was in hospice, I was able to use my previous experience from other family members.  Able to explain to her how to change his dressings and how to change his position often to prevent bed sores.
1	My dad had a massive stroke 10 years ago and my mom and sister were in complete denial about what was happening.  They wanted me to help get my dad to his feet because they thought if he started walking he would be ok.  I recognized immediately what was happening and called 911. My dad lived but he was never the same again.  His doctor showed us a brain scan that showed only a quarter size area of damage in his right brain.  It's scary that a quarter size area of damage could change someone's entire personality.
1	The last time I went to the doctor, I had strep throat. I was being checked up on and I needed to fill out paperwork at the beginning of my visit detailing some of my medical history and needs. This went smoothly.
-1	I work in a specialized and private hand clinic. Sometimes when patients come up to the window complaining of hand pain and such, I can instantly diagnose their disease. Of course, I don't have the license to clearly diagnose them and give them medical advice without an official diagnosis so I wait until the doctor can.
1	In my life, I have learned almost all of my knowledge of health from either my university classes or from medical websites online. The time this knowledge actually came into play was when I went to the hospital and listened to what hospital staff says to patients. Recently my father went to the hospital from an illness while visiting him with my mother the nurse came in to tell us what his condition was like. During the conversation, I had no problem trying to understand any of the basic terms or some of the more difficult medical terms that were discussed by the nurse.
1	When I was a teenager I got into a pretty terrible car accident. I was badly hurt and ended up pinned inside the car in the passenger seat. The way the metal bent in it crushed my leg. It took the first repsonders awhile to get me out of the stuck car. This meant I ended up suffering from crush syndrome or Rhabdomyolysis. This is kind of a complicated injury. It required a long hospital stay and following my release from the hospital I had to do physical therapy in order to completely rebuild the muscle I had lost in my leg. During this time I was seeing multiple doctors for various problems caused by the injury. I had to  ask a lot of questions in order to find out the best way to treat the pain I was suffering through.
1	I have taken many courses on biology and health in general. I think that I know a decent amount about health care.
1	Over the past two years I have had two major broken bones through falls. In those experiences, my knowledge of health and medical issues, specifically related to bone and muscle healing and development, but also on a larger scale, have increased a great deal. 
1	One thing that comes to mind is the fact that I show up each year for an annual physical.  While this seems like a small thing to many, people who think they are healthy should be getting annual checkups because you really can't always tell.  Even if you work out religiously and eat an extremely healthy diet, it's still vitally important to check in and make sure everything is actually okay inside of you.
1	Taking a course during college for food safety and illness prevention. We took numerous tests, courses and had information about the illnesses people can get from raw food, improper food handling and cross contamination. I am also knowledgeable out items that carry common bacteria from food and food items, since it was meant to keep the workplace, work areas and preparation clean to prevent any issue that may occur during cooking and serving guests.
1	I am a testicular cancer survivor of 15 years. I had to make a choice between surveillance, chemotherapy, and adjuvant surgery (after initial tumor removal). I had and have access to a myriad of professional medical peer-reviewed publications that enabled me to make an informed decision with the advice of my doctor. I did the chemotherapy and got my butt kicked. 
1	"I had to act as my mother's health care POA while she had dementia.  In this capacity, I requested that her doctor issue a ""Do Not Resusitate Order."""
-1	my experience in life the demonstrated my knowledge of heath or medical issue is i have always  been able to live a very healthy life i have avoided  any serious illness my whole life and i have never had to go to the hospital for any length of time. i feel that show a good knowledge of health issues .
1	I had a skin cancer scare a few years ago and met with quite a few medical professionals to see what procedures were necessary and what were elective. I had to do a lot of research on my own to ensure I was receiving the accurate information from the doctors. I needed to be my own patient advocate.
1	Last December, my daughter had cold-bite in her toes. At night she used to feel itchy. I used physical methods and ginger slices to accelerate the blood circulation in her toes, on the next night, the itch stopped. 
1	A couple years back I went to the dermatologist, but prior to that I did a lot of background search on what derms do and what they can provide for a patient. I already got a good understanding what they would prescribe me and therefore I knew how to take the prescriptions and what some of the side effects were going to be. I did end up getting what I thought I would so it really helped me out.
1	I usually research in internet when I find a health problem. After that I go to the doctor's office. Most of the times my research has given the correct result.
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with cancer, I was told that if I did not remove her from the care of one doctor and follow my knowledge I had on the signs and symptoms of kidney failure to send her to a new doctor. Then she would have died within days instead of her having the few months that she had.
1	I am in the middle of a survey with a few questions that test this very thing.  I think I did pretty well on these questions and that demonstrates my knowledge of these issues.
1	I had a child. I read up a ton on childbirth and pregnancy. I was an informed patient and worked with my doctor to create a plan that would involve as few drugs as possible and would allow me to have as much ability to move as he could grant me. Because I was informed and because he was receptive to my desires, we had a solid relationship that made me feel safe in his care. 
-1	I don't have an experience that demonstrated my knowledge on health or medical issues. I am always reliant on a medical official (doctor or nurse) to help me understand what is wrong. Short of colds, cuts and scraps I am not a professional and don't expect to understand what they know. I can tell the difference between a sprain or pulled muscle and something much worse but past that i do not have much experience.
1	When I broke my ankle I knew immediately what to do having witnessed somebody else go through the same thing. I was prepared for the upcoming actions. 
-1	i went to get my eyes checked and i stated that the white stuff in my eye was drusen. The doctor was astounded that i knew what the term drusen met.
1	I think my level of experience is pretty common for a regular person. I think i learn more every time i go to the hospital, i get sick or anybody in my close circle gets sick. I also enjoy watching different tv programs that teach you more about how to take care of yourself. I also read a lot of articles online about healthy lifestyle. I took few classes about healthy cooking and nutrition   
-1	As I had said or described previously, through my experience I have been able to learn only the basics for medical cases. For example, a while ago I had some problems with my heart. These problems made me understand that I should drink a lot of water, always avoid strong emotions or dislikes. I understood that I could feel thanks to the problem in the heart dizziness and desire to vomit
-1	I have so many to choose from. When I was pregnany I was put on bed rest for 20 weeks. Was hospitalized 5 times. Had a bunch of different doctors. My husband and I researched progesterone and questioned why I wasnt on it. Turns out all the doctors thought I should be, but none of them did anything because they assumed one of the others had. So upon my urging we began daily treatment 
1	One of my friends had to have a surgery because he had an abnormal swelling. By watching grey's anatomy, I was able to tell that my friend had a hematoma and this was confirmed when he had to go in to surgery. One of my medical school student friends was impressed that I was able to tell that from watching a TV show, despite not having taken any medical courses.
1	Probably when my step dad was complaining about a growth on his face. I have run across information in the past about skin cancer and immediately told him he should get that checked out. He went a couple months later and it turned out that I was in fact right, he was diagnosed with cancer. Thankfully, they were able to cut it out of his face and now he doesn't have it anymore. 
-1	I know how to use cough syrup. I undo the plastic, screw off the cap, remove the plastic guard, and pour it into a cup. 
-1	When I was went to the doctor and found out that my cancer came back, I was already familiar with what medicines I needed to take and was knowledgeable about my options 
-1	My son was born with bilateral megaureters resulting in reflux of urine and destruction of 1 kidney before birth. My knowledge saved him from needing a transplant when his good ureter started showing signs of failing. I refusted to allow the other ureter to be removed in case he needed it later and he did.
1	I have studied the topic of physical health and nutrition quite a bit. I used various sources to increase my knowledge about how to be healthier, what foods to eat, etc. I used this information to make myself healthier and get in shape. I knew which foods to avoid and which were best for me, and how to exercise to improve my fitness.
1	When giving my kids medicine i have to read the label to find the correct dosage and then measure out the correct amount before giving it to them.
1	I honestly have not had an experience that let me show off my knowledge of medical terminology. That is something i have beeen blessed with not having to expirence.I only know info on a strictly academic sense
1	I have lived with and taken care of a terminally ill parent for years. It was a struggle to keep everything going. It felt like any small slip up could mean she could die. So I was vigilant in everything that was happening to her
1	I often have to help my mother with medical paperwork, medication, etc. Overall, I don't have a need to interpret a large amount of information. 
1	I had a lump in thigh and looked up information on the lump and found a picture of it on the Internet. The lump is a lipoma (or fatty tissue that grows after an injury).  I got lucky and was correct.  The doctor told me what I had.
1	I have a degree in medical laboratory technology and have spent many years working in the veterinary field. I am familiar with testing and medical diagnosis and procedures. Although, it is at times easier to talk to my veterinarian about my dog's health issues than it is to talk to my Dr.
-1	My mom has lots of health issues. I have worked in a couple offices that dealt with the same problems she has so I am able to help my mom understand better what her doctors telling her. When she does not completely understand or even believe what the doctors are saying are correct she can call me and I can tell her if Ive ever dealt with that before. Even though I do not have a lot of knowlegde about medical conditions I seem to know more then a lot of friends and family do. Also, as I'm sure most people use Google to search medical terms or symptoms. I search google for everything so that helps me help others and myself undersand medical stuff. I do know most doctors hate for their patients to search google for medical conditions. With that said most all medical conditions have the same symptoms as other conditions so we should  only take what we find on google or even hear from friends and family very lightly and make sure to always speak with a doctor. 
1	I took a course on environmental toxicology. I also work as a lab chemist for a water-testing company and need to know how ingested chemicals can affect the body.
1	I have explained to people what I do and use when I am not feeling healthy and or have a toothache, headache or other similar things. Other then that I don't go around demonstrating my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	When I found out that I had high cholesterol, the explanation by the doctor was quite complex. It resulted in it being a genetic disorder which was something I couldn't control. After hearing the explanation from him and hearing how the blood works with cholesterol, I was able to go home and explain all of this to my parents so they could understand. The ability to explain something so complex shows the extent that I understand what the doctor had told me.
-1	My knowledge of health and medical issues are when I had my daughter.  When I had her it was an emergency c section.  I had a condition called HELLP.  I didnt at the time know what that was until that day. I had extremely high BP.  I had to have blood transfusions and platelets.  I had to make sure from that point on I watched my intake of fatty foods so my liver would not be affected.  I have learned what fatty liver really is.  My dr test my blood now to make sure my liver is in the normal levels.  
1	I have given advice to a lot of friends who have mental illnesses since I suffer from depression and anxiety disorder.  I have also researched my parents medical issues and helped educate them or clear up any confusion they have about their conditions or the medication they are taking.  Having to have surgery 4 times also helped me learn a great deal and help others deal with the same medical issue that I have.
1	I was able to research my symptoms and have an idea of what questions to act the doctor when I went for my appointment.
1	My tenant informed me he was experiencing chest pains.  I called 911 and had him rest.  I checked his pulse to make sure it was strong.  When the fire department arrived, I made sure that they had his medications to take to the hospital with him.
1	I started eating more healthy food and more carefully watching what I eat after taking a Health course in college. I now think about what nutrients different foods offer and have cut out unhealthy foods.
1	Anytime I went to the doctor with my father.  I made sure to prepare myself by reading background material and understanding his history so I could walk into the office and make it clear to the doctor that I knew what I was talking about.
-1	Eating right is the key to good health. It's not a apple a day keeps the doctor away. It's eat plenty of fruits and vegetables and reduce your meat intake and exercise keeps you away from the doctors. 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when someone claimed to have had the flu. I asked them what their symptoms were and based upon their answers, I concluded that they had a mere cold instead of the flu
1	My best friend frequently panics over small issues regarding her health. When she starts to do so, I often give her statistics to calm her down and when that does not work, I then point out to her the process of elimination so that she can realize how minimal her chances usually are of something major.
1	I think that the most beneficial experience that I have come across would be just learning how to read nutrition labels, and figure out what my daily intake should be. This has allowed me to learn how to control my weight. 
-1	I mean just talking to my doctor or reddit i guess. I never took classes and i know i didn't do that good. I think i'm a good example of a average joe.
1	I was primary caregiver for my parents for 10 years before their deaths.  We were constantly at Doctors and hospitals with Alzheimers, MS, Parkinsons, Heart disease, Diabetes, etc.  
1	I was able to significantly lower my blood pressure by changing my diet to mostly vegetables and fruits. As well as avoiding red meat.
1	Both of my parents have had serious health issues. I have been to many doctors appointments, and I have met with many of their surgeons over the years. I have listed to and understood what we being explained to me.
1	I had to go to my doctor on 4 separate occasions at one point before she finally agreed to test me for mononucleosis, which I believed I had. At my first visit, she told me I was tired because I was depressed, and she prescribed an antidepressant. At the next appointment when I complained of pain in my side, she told me I pulled a muscle. At the next visit, I told her I believed I had strep throat as well, and she told me there was no sign of strep and sent me out the door. Two days later, I was back in her office, and she then tested me for both strep and mono, which were both positive.
1	When my grandfather was in hospice care, I was able to understand what the nurses were saying about his health and how to take care of him.
1	An experience that has demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is when I researched foods online, such as which vegetable are in the dirty dozen each year (have the most pesticide danger), so I know which vegetables should always be bought organic and which not so much.
1	"When my late father-in-law was dying of liver failure, I understood what the various symptoms meant in terms of the stage of the disease, and was aware of what would come next, and of his prognosis. For example, I realized that when he developed ascites, that this was a not a good sign and that he probably had limited time to live. When he later developed hepatic encephalopathy, I knew that his time was even more limited, and tried to help my mother-in-law in understanding this (as she was somewhat in denial about the severity of the illness). I never ""second-guessed"" his doctors regarding his treatment, I just wanted to understand what was happening. "
1	A few years back, I fell hopelessly dizzy and could not stand upright for a few days. The spinning was also came with a loud ringing in my left ear which also left me partially deaf. After doing some research online, I came to discover that the ringing in my ears was called tinnitus and that there are stones in my ears that are responsible for equilibrium that I must have knocked out of whack.
1	My mom was diagnosed with breast cancer a few years ago and asked me to come with her to all her appointments. She asked me to make sure all possible questions were asked and everything was explained well enough for her to understand
1	The most relevant evidence that I have experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues is not only my many years of taking care of my personal health matters through the health system, but also my having successfully graduating with my Emergency Medical Technician certificate.  I have also interned in an emergency room for some time and have two years of premed education in college.  
1	My medical knowledge tends to relate around lower back and foot pain. For a number of years I had experienced lower back pain at a young age and doctors just told me there was nothing to do about it. I then went to se a chirpractor and he was able to adjust my back over a number of sessions. This relieved a lot of the pain I was experiencing. A number of years later I started having really bad foot pain and was told by doctor that it was plantar fisciatus and gave me inserts. This did not help and I basically self diagnosed and firued out that problem was being cause by my lower back. Started to do a number of streches and eventually pain receded. Then went back to chripractor to get an adjustment and this totally removed the pain from my foot
1	I developed a blister rash on the bottom of my feet and on my hands. From all the symptoms, I discerned it was probably dyshidrotic eczema. My primary care physician at the time had never seen it before and tried to treat it but ultimately sent me to a dermatologist. She took one look and said classic DE. 
1	I think that the fact that I always stay on top of my health and I continue to read about health in general helps me in a positive way. I try to be in control of any symptoms I might have and to research things as much as possible so that I remain healthy. 
1	When I have a headache or a sickness of some sort, I used to take ibuprofen or other painkillers like that. For the past couple of years when I get a headache or feel rough I will just drink lots of water and take it easy. I find that when I run a fever and leave a headache alone, I will usually get well much faster and even have a feeling in my body the next day like my body is no longer fighting something. I've come to feel like the pain you during sickness is literally the thing that's gonna defeat the virus and make you feel better sooner, and recently I've been around lots of sick people and haven't been sick in over a year. I feel that I've challenged my immune system like it's naturally supposed to be challenged, and strengthened it as a result. 
1	During my pregnancy, I found out that I had a condition that had a high risk of early delivery. Through research, I tried to best guess the chance I had at delivering and how much the prescribed treatment (progesterone suppositories) would lower it. I also looked up statistics on survival of babies at a given weeks gestation, to make me feel better at the chances of my baby's survival if I did go into early labor. In the end I was fine and stayed pregnant until my exact due date. So my son was born on his exact due date.
1	I do not have a relevant experience that has occurred during my life that would demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	this has never happened to me, i always research my symptoms and then go to the doctor to see if the internet was right or wrong. then ask the dr why its this and not these other things.;
1	When I went to see my most recent psychiatrist, I not only described my symptoms to her but also told her the kind of medications that I wanted to take. I had already studied a lot about my potential illnesses and what would be most helpful, and she prescribed everything I requested. I was at my most stable point after that, all because I gave my own input and knowledge about what was right for me.
1	I've had to demonstrate knowledge of a specific medical issue with my own doctor. I was diagnosed with something she had heard of but wasn't really familiar with. I would conduct research etc and report back to her what I found and she would record for reference with future patients. 
1	I took my godmother to the emergency room for a mild chest pain, which was her compliant at the time. After reading the emergency test results and medicines prescribed, I was able to understand what her underlying medical issues are, which was proved right when we later visited her regular doctor as she explained everything to us. 
-1	A time where I was presented with the knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was at the clinic with my doctor who explained to me the problems that I had with my health.
-1	I try to exercise, walk and eat healthy. I try to make foods that are good for me.  I try to take to my doctor about all the things I can do to make my life easier and healthy so I can live a long time
1	"My sister was having severe pain in her lower leg, for no apparent reason. She was a smoker at the time. I suggested she go to the ER because it could be serious. She declined, because it was ""just leg pain."" She was in ICE 2 days later for a pulmonary embolism. The leg pain had been a blood clot. It broke free and went to her lungs. It could have killed her. Had she gone in when I suggested, things would have been much better for her ."
-1	I am an ultrasound tech for my profession.  I had a pt that had experienced sudden weight loss, new onset diabetic and several other symptoms that were side effects of pancreatic cancer.  I scanned her pancreas and found a mass in the head.  I took the information to the radiologist and he did not agree.  I went above him and took the info to the physician and he tested specifically for it and foudn it to be positive for panc ca
1	When I was in the jungle in Thailand with three other people, we spent several nights with tribal people.  On the first night, the woman whose hut we were staying in had a very badly broken arm.  She had broken it a couple of days earlier.  Pierre and I talked about it and agreed to clean it up and set it together, knowing that she would probably get gangrene and die if something wasn't done.  
-1	Most employers are concerned about worker safety since injuries or other workplace incidents can impact productivity, morale, and insurance rates, while also leaving the organization
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when my daughter got sick. I took her temperature and gave her cold press to relieve her pain. I also gave her probiotics and other good food to make her feel better.
1	After graduating from college I had a degree in biochemistry. Quite a few years later, I completed 1 semester in a medical technology program.
1	I am familiar with the symptoms and numerical glucose values of diabetic persons who are beginning to have an insulin reaction so I was able to tell when a young boy I knew was in this situation though no one else around him was aware of it. This allowed me to react quickly, grab his blood sugar test kit and test his blood to see if the situation was an emergency.
-1	I don't really have experience except from reading online and luckily I've only had two medical issues, both having to do with my kidneys. I've learned from the doctors and WebMD about supplements and dietary adjustments that would decrease my risk of kidney stones. Otherwise, I really do not have much knowledge on medical issues.
1	I had a baby two years ago by c-section.  I was able to understand the explanations of why this was medically necessary and agree to it. I also was discharged with material that contained instructions about caring for myself and my son post-partum, and I had no trouble understanding the material I was given.
1	I used to be a certified nurses assistant at a past job over 20 years ago. Therefore, I received lots of knowledge while I was working with Licences Practical Nurses's and Registered Nurse's and taking care of geriatric patients on a daily basis at my past job. 
1	I'm not really sure, probably when I got tested for thyroid problems because I did a bunch of research beforehand. It turned out that I did not have any abnormal thyroid condition.
1	I injured my back and began going in for treatments to help with the pain.  I began having pain in my sciatica nerve, and explained this to the doctor.  He didn't believe me because I hadn't had a specific injury that caused this pain.  I explained the pain, and all of the information regarding it, and he finally believed me.
1	I can't think of a specific acute experience but my mother taught me how to read a nutrition label, count calories, and assess whether said calories are empty or nutritional. I could just do better at following that info. 
1	Blood pressure issues.  I know from seeing various family members who had severe high blood pressure what kind of issues can occur.  This was enough for me to decided to address my blood pressure issues with my doctor.
1	My mom has been diagnosed and survived 4 different cancers. Likewise, my sister in law is a PA. Personally, I have been power lifting for over 4 years therefore understand about the human body and food consumption 
1	Most of my knowledge comes from having a B.S. in Biology, in addition to having a desire to continue with my education after I graduated. So I also regularly read books about Science and Math as much as I can. 
1	I noticed spotting after menopause and knew that it could be serious so I went in for a check-up.  I did have an issue and it was caught in time.
1	My mother was diagnozed with Alzheimer's disease at age 76.  At the time, I read that both high doses of vitamin e and hormone replacement therapy could slow the rpgress of the disease.  In addition, vitamin B12 shots administered monthly would also be beneficial.  I convinced her primary care physician to introduce these supplements into her protocol of care and she remained on a stable plateau of forgetfulness for the next six years, with marked improvement in her mood and sociability.  She died of pneumonia at age 82, before Alzheimer's progressed to its inevitable awful end.
-1	There are time when I may try to self-diagnose at home. It worries me at time when doing so, but I have to go to the doctor as well, and there are a number of times when the doctor gave me the same answer I already figured out myself.
-1	When I was given my lab results while in the Drs office I asked them before I looked at my copies if everything looked good and the nurse said yes everything is perfect so I looked over the reference ranges on all tests done. I found 3 blood tests that were flagged as abnormal and one was really low compared to what the reference range showed for Vitamin D and I was very deficient on paper. I told the DR my findings and he said ohhh just go out in the sun more. Well I talked to a nurse practitioner about it on a follow up appt and she put me on Vitamin D3 supplements for 3 months and I really felt so much better after my level was up. 
1	I eat fruit and vegitables all the time. Because of this I never get sick it seems. I think washing my hands helps too.
1	I experienced chest pain on the left side of my chest, so I went to the emergency room thinking I was having a heart attack.  The tests were negative.
1	I suspected that my son had autism at a very young age. When I took him to the pediatrician, he did not think that my son had autism and did not feel it was necessary to refer him for testing. I persisted and was able to get my son tested. My son was officially diagnosed with autism at the surprise of the pediatrician.
-1	My husband recently had an episode of CHF.  He's had heart disease for years.  The day he could no longer walk from one end of the house to the other, I knew he could no longer put off going to the hospital.
-1	When my mother started experiencing tension types of headaches, I suggest she try to work to loosen the muscles in her neck and shoulders to prevent these headaches. She began stretching each morning and the headaches stopped.
-1	I was certified for CPR a while ago.  I never actually had to use it but I was in a situation where I I was able to assist someone performing it and help remind them of the proper steps, etc to keep them confident.
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues was when I took a pre test in my health class in high school. I did well. I like studying health for fun.
1	I was a pharmacy tech student for over a year. We had tests on the subject and I did well, especially in medical terminology. I have been telling doctors for nine years about chronic back pain, and kept getting sent to do physical therapy which wasn't helping, they tell me I need to exercise and lose some weight but I actually have arthritis and 2 herniated discs shown by an MRI I finally talked someone into doing last year.
1	Many years ago I found a mass in my breast. I went for a mammogram, which showed something abnormal, then I immediately had a sonogram, which also showed an abnormality. I was soon after scheduled for a biopsy and it was found to be an unusual but benign cyst. I knew enough to do self checks and have it tested.
1	I have Multiple Sclerosis. One symptom I used to suffer from is extensive pain and numbness in my arms overnight. After extensive research I concluded that water fasting would help improve my condition. After 14 days of water fasting the symptom among many others has vanished.
1	Twelve years ago I was diagnosed with presumed ocular histoplasmosis. It was an emergency situation that I had to make a decision regarding my eyes by putting trust in the doctors. I asked my personal eye doctor a lot of questions and he was able to help me with my decision to have treatment on my eye.
1	Previously I was thought to have hypertension.  My doctor wanted my cholesterol reduced by 15% in the span of 6 months.  I actively took medication and my cholesterol reduced by 40%
-1	I had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when I had a sonogram on my thyroid. I understood what I was told by my physician and why they wanted to do further testing, due to the results of the sonogram.
1	I knew that a loved one had a bowel blockage that needed to be addressed. It wasn't because the doctors only focused on the fact that that person had cancer. They refused to look at anything else. It was a hard battle to win.
1	An experience I had in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I when my toddler daughter fell from a tree and cut her arm. She was frantic but I observed that the cut was relatively minor, was an isolated injury, did not appear to need stitches and there were no apparent breaks or rapid swelling. I soothed her tears by reassuring her as I cleaned her cut thoroughly and applied pressure to stop the bleeding. Then I applied a sterile bandage to the wound and walked her through some gentle range of motion maneuvers to verify that her wrist and elbow were unaffected. Since everything checked out OK, I determined that a trip to a physician was probably not necessary. I cleaned and dressed the wound, changed her bandage over the following week, and her healing progressed without incident.
1	I had to determine whether to vaccinate my child.  This led to taking the risk of having autism.  I realized that research was trash and did it anyways.
-1	I have had wheezy breathing since I was a kid, but it was usually only when I was doing something particularly strenuous like hiking or riding my bike. When I got older, I did a good deal of research after experiencing bad wheezing while trying to get back into exercising again. I deduced that I likely had exercise induced asthma. I went to a doctor about it and they confirmed that it was that. 
1	When my daughter was little, she was prone to very high fever when sick, often over 104-105 degrees. I was aware that we were approaching dangerous territory.  Early on, doctors told us that we could overlap Acetaminophen and Ibuprofen every 4 hours because that would allow us to wait the recommended time between the same medication while shortening the time between medications.  We continued this practice, understanding that we were not exceeding recommended dosage, when she would have high fevers. 
-1	Usually I know when something is serious or not, because I try to read a lot of medical research and articles about misconceptions people might have. 
-1	When my daughter got a skin allergy reaction when she was 5, i immediately knew  it was food poison by just looking at the color of her skin
1	I had a rash on my leg and suspected that it was Eczema. I went to the doctor and he diagnosed that.
-1	Well I do not have to much experience with examples that I are listed above but I do have basic knowledge of health and medical issues. Well primary my knowledge comes from my wife who is self taught health adviser. Also my mom is a health aid she have been working for 20 years now. Sometimes I do help her with her patients, I usually drive her and her patients to and from doctors appointments. So generally my experience comes from my family, which I am thankful for, because I found a lot of things that will be very useful regarding my health and medical issues.
1	When my dad was diagnosed with kidney cancer, we both talked about the face that his 1 year survival rate was only about 15%. Particularly interesting was the fact that he had a rare form of kidney cancer and his next door neighbor died of the same cancer a few decades before making us wonder if there was an unusual cluster happening.
-1	My experiences in knowledge of health or medical issues are better till now.I have no any serious diseases infecting my body.So far there has no signs of fatal deficiencies in my body. 
1	I've had many experiences in my life where I felt I demonstrated knowledge of health and medical issues. A few instances that come to mind are when my children were younger. I use to be able to diagnose their issues with an 80 percent efficiency. This was mainly during the ages of one and five. I felt as they got older my ability to pinpoint their illness was not as spot on as when they were younger. I sometimes can make an educated guess as to what is ailing them, today. 
1	Growing up, our maid's daughter had epileptic fits. One night in the middle of the night, I was woken up by my sister who was frantic. Janelle, (maid's daughter) was having a fit and I knew enough to keep her from swallowing her tongue using a spoon and then driving her to the ER. (My parents were both out of town).
-1	I was told I could possibly be at risk of not being able to have children when I went to the hospital a few years ago due to stomach cramping. I questioned them and they could not explain that to me. I asked why they thought that and if they had any proof and they could not. I told them they shoulndn't be telling people that. 
1	I noticed that I have a blue ring around my sclera. I knew that this could be due to an issue with my collagen. I went to several different types of doctors and was told by all of them that I have a strong likelihood of having a collagen defect. I was diagnosed with Ehlers Danlos syndrome shortly after. 
-1	I had a red bumpy rash on my thigh and automatically recognized as excema and was told by my doctor that it was it. I can't write anymore I have to pick up my niece something happened at her school. I will try and finish this later
-1	My daughter was born with Sturge Webber which is seizure disorder. I had to learn all about it so that I could make sure she got the care she needed.
1	A few years ago, my youngest son, who was 7 at the time, was hit by a car.  He suffered a traumatic brain injury.  He was on life support and in a coma for 3 weeks. He then was placed in a rehab hospital for many more weeks.  I had to quickly learn what was happening around me, the machines, the medications, and the monitors.  Nothing existed outside of his hospital room.
1	My doctor told me that a new medicine I could take has a 25 percent chance to cause nausea.he said it would help me though if I wanted to chance it.i figured the odds were in my favor.
-1	Being a nurse is obviously the most prominent example of demonstrating my knowledge of medical or health issues. Besides that, having children has been another way of demonstrating my knowledge. I have also had a few health issues of my own. 
1	There have been many times in my life where I was able to assess my medical problem myself and avoid a doctor's visit because I knew there was no danger and I merely needed to ride it out. At the end of last year, I correctly guessed that my oncoming symptoms meant I had contracted strep throat, so I visited a doctor immediately rather than suffer through that for weeks.
-1	I know when I am having trouble with my Cholesterol.  I know when I start feeling a certain way -- tired ect. that I am not treating it like I should be.
1	I don't know that I have many, just that I have have a few surgeries and regularly see a neurologist for migraines.
1	I am a registered sonographer so I get alot of people sending me their ultrasounds to look at baby or tell them what the gender is ect. THis will get annoying after a set of time but when you see a ultraound of a friend that is bad. you never stop thinking about it
1	To be honest, I'm not sick very often and I haven't had much experience with any life-threatening diseases.  I don't call the doctor at the first sniffle, but I do call if I do need to go see him.
1	generally everytime I go to the doctor or er, because I've had biology and medical classes and know a thing or two
-1	Someone was recently mentioning renal failure. I knew what this was just because my wife had explained it to me just recently. 
-1	After I had prostate cancer surgery and was in the process of recovering, I developed lympidemia in my left leg. For a large portion of my life I had been in excellent physical condition. As a result I knew that if after recovery I stayed active there was a very good chance that my swelling go down and stay down with regular exercise. This knowledge was gained through several sources including my doctors and previous trainers.
-1	When my husband had cancer I had to learn a lot of information. He had issues that were never discussed with us about his long term problems from head and neck radiation.
1	My knowledge on health and Medical issues is really only valuable to one person, me. I know how i feel, i know how i don't feel, I have a vested interest in my health and well being that encourages learning about whatever symptoms i may be dealing with at any given time, due to this i usually am pretty educated as to what i may likely have and why, or what i most likely do NOT have and why. I have noticed that doctors have seem to be thankful of this at many of my appointments and maybe even a little impressed! One time in particular i correctly diagnosed my skin condition and the doctor got it wrong in fact i had to really advocate for myself to finally get the medication that would treat the condition i was convinced i had, and finally when i saw another doctor he agreed with my diagniosis and treatment was immediately successful. The prior doctor had told me flatly that the condition i was concerned about was familiar to her and i DID NOT have it, in fact I DID! 
1	In boy scouts we had to learn and demonstrate first aid. I learned all the basics. Also in health class at school.
1	My husband has diabetes and so i learned alot from him. I couple years ago my doctor told me that my blood sugar was borderline but i could reduce it by changing my diet. I was fully aware of what that meant and the implications of it and i knew fully what she was talking about and what to do
1	MY GIRLFRIEND IS DIABETIC, WHEN HERE BLOOD SUGAR IS EXTREMELY LOW HAS THE APPEARANCE OF BEING SAD, IF YOU ASK HER A FEW QUESTIONS AND SHE IS UNABLE TO ANSWER THEM YOU KNOW HER BLOOD SUGAR IS LOW AND SHE'S NOT SAD.
1	When I last went to the doctor, I brought along with me a detailed list of my symptoms as I recorded them when they occurred. Along with this, I made sure to ask questions about certain health conditions that I thought I had a higher probability of having.
-1	One such experience was when I helped to take care of a loved one who was sick. I knew by taking her temperature that she could be monitored more closely for signs of infection. For example if her temperature was above 100, she would have a fever and needed medical care because she might become septic.
1	My son was having lots of issues with his ears.  I suspected that he had an ear infection.  I took him to the doctor to get checked out, and he indeed had an ear infection.  I was lucky enough to be able to try an alternative therapy to antibiotics, which I had heard about from a nurse friend of mine.  The doctor allowed us to try it and come back in a few days to see if it had worked.  It did (it was mullein garlic ear drops) and he avoided antiobiotics.
1	When my mother was ill I had to help her with her medical issues.  I did the best I could and I felt like a very competent person in regards to medical issues.
-1	When my husband died and i had to give him cpr. Which i did till medics got there then they took over. Unfortunately he did'tn make it. I was thankful that i had learned cpr in my younger days and was able to  hellp.
-1	2 years ago I had my son via c-section. 10 months post-partum I had picked him up along with a 24 pack of water and I ended up getting a hernia. I told the doctor and they agreed with me. 
1	I was diagnosed with shingles and I had already had read up on the shingles symptoms and side effects. I felt as though I was equipt enough to understand my condition better because if this. 
-1	I am able to understand when something is diagnosed to me. I understand that antibiotics are only for bacterial infections so if it is most likely a virus they should be avoided so you don't get immune.
1	Just reading random articles and looking to understand more common health occurrences and illnesses beyond a generic understanding of what most individuals would have.
1	There was some white sags in my throat once, I already know what they are, is an infection Ive already had before, so all I needed to get was some antibiotics, I told a doctor friend of myne to give me a prescription. 
1	With the exception of minor things such as headaches, stomachaches, sore throats, colds and the flu, I am not sure if I ever have really demonstrated much knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	My mother is a medical social worker and my father is a healthcare consultant. My mother in particular has influenced me knowing a good deal about medicine. I regularly went to the hospital with her from a young age and volunteered at her hospital as a teenager as well. I also had more serious medical problems in my late teen and early 20s that required a good deal of medical attention that made me more knowledge about medicine and tests and procedures than I ever cared to be unless I was attending medical school.
1	My son was diagnosed as having ADHD but did not show many key symptoms. I took him to different doctors after having done my own research. I believed he was mildly autistic and it was confirmed many years later that he has Asperger's Syndrome.
-1	Learning how to eat properly, as a result of growing up terribly out of shape. This led to me learning about the dangers of meat and dairy, finding out which foods nourish and heal the body, as well as nutrients and supplements. 
1	Well I can offer things like I am aware of how to perform the Heimlich Maneuver on a choking patient. Also, I know the modern strictures for performing cpr. Also I knew of a condition called Reye's Syndrome that affects children who are given aspirin.
-1	A few years ago I was diagnosed early with the full-blown flu. I know something was out of the ordinary because my body aches were very extreme. I knew it was the flu and luckily got it before it became worse. 
1	I cannot say that it really demonstrates my knowledge on medical issues but I have clearly learned many things regarding the subject. Many things I learned since my daughter was born and she had all kinds of typical for her age issues. Also when she was found with the mild hearing loss I learned a lot of her condition.
1	When I was younger, I had contracted Mononucleosis. After I had completely recovered, I had developed lumps on my shins. Most people would automatically assume that they were shin splints, but I knew better. I met with one Dr. who diagnoses me with shin splints even though I told him that I was not an active person. I also showed him my research results which suggested that I had Erythema Nodosum, which is common after contracting Mononucleosis. That Dr. told me I was wrong, so I went to a Dermatologist instead who confirmed that I was absolutely correct.
-1	Brain Tumors a condition called Neurofibromatosis. Very serious. I have both and right now my daughter has one of these diseases. Also premature babies my first born was born at 25 weeks. At 1lb 3oz. Over 4 months in the hospital
1	I was eating at a restaurant and a woman in her early sixties started grasps at her chest, and then passed out. I immediately started CPR on her and others in the restaurant called for help. I learned later that she had had a heart attack, and that my efforts had helped to save her life. It was one of the best and worst experiences in my life. 
1	i am an optometry student so i often talk to friends about their eye problems and help them especially with proper contact lens care
-1	There are many, but because I have a nursing background, most of my friends come to me for medical advice and to explain what the doctor told them.  Before I give any medical advice or explanations, I always ask if they have been to their doctor and what did he tell them.  
1	I broke my arm many years ago and was told I needed surgery to fix my arm.  When I reviewed the surgery the doctor suggested I realized that they wanted to put pins in my bones to hold them together and in turn it would dramatically reduce my range of motion in my arm.  I decided not to have the surgery and found a doctor who agreed to take a slow approach to healing my broken arm.  I spent nearly a year in various casts and my arm healed on it's own, with full range of motion.  Had I not taking the time and energy to research my arm and the suggested surgery, I may not be living the life I have now and my physical abilities would be reduced.
1	Wow, um. I guess when my son's piano teacher was diagnosed with the same breast cancer my best friend had just beaten the year before. I was able to point her to resources she needed, and helped her formulate questions to ask regarding her treatment. I learned a lot as my bff went through her treatments and reconstruction that was beneficial to my son's piano teacher. 
-1	actually in very difficult to understand simple read some terms and diagnoses, that's why I find it hard to understand and I need some to explain many times the diagnosis
1	I helped my dad take my grandfather to the emergency room when he was sick. The doctor told us what was wrong with my grandfather using medical terms. I understood this and told my dad in more simple words.
1	I had a liver transplant in 2003. Since then I have become the go to expert for the people I know on anything to do with the liver. Or any organ transplant. Or really any major surgery. Even veterinary questions. I really dont know that much about the medical knowledge behind liver transplants, but I can advise on how to approach the procedure, and what to expect to happen after the procedure (which is more important to the patient, anyway). I know I have been able to put some peoples minds at ease who have experienced a transplant, so that makes me feel good. In 2017 I had a kidney transplant, so now Im an expert on that, too.
1	My colleague cut himself. So I got a first aid kit, wrapped the cut up with ice, had him hold his cut hand over his head for a half hour, then applied wiped the cut with alcohol and applied cream to prevent infections, and bandaged him up. 
1	A friend began suffering from terrible migraines, but didn't want to go to the doctor. I asked him different questions to identify the cause, including whether he had any dental issues. He didn't see the connection, but admitted that he had an exposed nerve in one of his teeth. I suggested he stopped avoiding the dentist because that may be the cause of his migraines. Within a few days of going to the dentist, his migraines stopped.
1	I had a heart issue awhile ago and I went to the doctor about it. I had a few appointments with specialists for tests and it ended up being a benign issue that has mostly resolved at this point. I researched and listened to the doctors and they were correct.
1	I tried to use my math skills the best that I felt that I could to try and figure out the information presented.
1	In high school I took a class called Medical Terminology that was of great help to learn the medical terms.  But since then a lot of time has passed and I have forgotten most of the information. Now I only now what I read or what someone else tells me about medical issues, or some of my own experience I have with the medical field.
1	I have a lot of health problems and so does my family. I also have have a job in the healthcare field before. 
1	I verbally walked a patient through what will happen during a cerebral angiogram from start to finish.  What they will experience and and to expect from the dr.'s.  I have had these before myself and i also schedule them.
1	I had a friend that I was helping out when I noticed that she was having problems. First it was just not being able to remember but then she couldn't add and that was not like this smart individual so I asked her a few questions and I told her she needed to go to the doctor right away.  I was right she had a brain tumor that was causing her trouble.
1	I was with my grandma when she was diagnosed with dementia.  Based on movies I had seen, I was able to question the doctor about what was to come.  
-1	I had a real bad sore throat a few years ago and I had a feeling that I had strep throat. I was correct with my diagnosis, I realized that I was having to much pain so I knew it couldn't be a regular sore throat. my thinking was confirmed by my doctor. 
1	I had a mammogram that was suspicious and needed a breast biopsy. I asked to have an ultrasound or MRI to confirm before surgery. They did as I requested and found it was a fatty tumor, no surgery needed
-1	well because of my health issues I was able to figure out my husband had diabetes and diabetic nephropathy and he was able to go to the doctor to get treated for it and he is doing much better
-1	About 15 years ago my primary physician was completing my annual exam and asked if I was experiencing any pain in my upper back.  I told her that I was aware of the curve in my spin but that I had attributed the discomfort that I was having from the years of pushing Z-racks at work. She prompted informed me of the medical term for the physical condition and recommended that I keep an eye on it.  She did send me to have xrays done to begin tracking.
-1	my experience is very little, but when i do a medical exam i read the results online after going to my doctor and understand all
1	I had a ingrown toenail that I had to have a doctor remove a few years ago. I knew what an ingrown toenail looked like and the health risks that it came with.
-1	I was able to successfully nurse my bedridden brother who had suffered multiple injuries from a near fatal accident. I followed the doctors directions.
1	A few years ago, I lost about 70 pounds without help from a medical practitioner. I just made a switch to eating whole foods and exercising daily. My doctor always wanted to make it a thyroid issue, but I firmly believed that once the change was made the thyroid would follow. It did.
1	I had many experiences practicing as an emergency medical technician for a fire department. I would have to obtain histories, perform physical exams, treat some injuries, provide health advice, and come up with a differential diagnosis.
1	Apologies in advance if this isn't exactly the type of experience that you're looking for, but it's the only thing that I can think of that somewhat relates. Whenever I run across something that I don't know about (especially a health issue), I typically try to do as much research on it as I can. As mentioned before, I suffer from IBS. I tried to do what research that I could on my own, but I eventually had to cave and go to the doctor when it didn't seem to get any better (it's a good thing that I did, because I likely also had a stomach ulcer). Anyway, fast forward about half a year later, and it seems that my IBS is getting worse and my medicine doesn't seem to be helping that much. I go to the doctor again to get a different medicine, which also doesn't seem to be doing much good. In the meantime, I've been keeping a food journal and doing more research on my own. After a couple of months of pain, I figure out the problem--I've developed fructose malabsorption. After cutting out soda and other things high in fructose, the problem is as fixed as it can be.
1	I had a toothache and found out it was infected. They gave me an antibiotic to take for 15 days. I felt better in two days, but continued to take the antibiotic as directed, because I know that is what you are supposed to do or else a new hardier strain could develop.
1	When my mom had a heart event.  She had to be shocked back to life twice, and put into a medically induced coma for 2 days while her body recovered before they allowed her to wake up and took her off of all of the medications. I had to deal with all of the inputs from the doctor's on if she would wake up, when she would wake up, how should would be if and when she woke up as well as medications and after her open heart surgery, how to take care of her when she returned home.  It was 3 weeks of being in the hospital looking after her with my husband, pulling night shift and working to be a patient advocate.
1	When I was told about ear infections, I knew most of the information because I had had ear infections in the past. I knew any technical terms and what causes them and the treatments for them.
1	I had a perianal abscess a few years ago. last year I started feeling like I was getting another one. I went to my doctor, explained what I was feeling and the doctor examined me. He told me I was right and started me on antibiotics.
-1	I was diagnosed with unexplained high blood pressure. Since there was no explanation, it has made it challenging to figure out how to solve the issue and avoid heart damage in the future.  
-1	I have had to have over 12 surgery's and many more biopsy's in my life. i have had bone grafts done to breast biopsy's.. i have a lot of experience in the hospital care world. Today i do home care for a quadriplegic between his and myself we have plenty of experince.
-1	In 2004, I took a bad fall in front of the hospital I worked at which resulted in a fractured right hip.  It required surgery and 4 weeks later after a rehab stay I was home and regaining my mobility and living life at a much slower pace.  It was the first time I was incapacitated and had to rely on others for help.  I knew that I needed to follow the dr's orders and almost 9 months later I was back to work.  I did everything as ordered and because I was familiar with medical jargon I was a good patient.
1	My mother is a type 1 diabetic which she got in her 20s. So since then she is well versed in medical knowledge and keeps on it. She kept up on me as a kid and into my 20s. I think I learned a lot from that and apply what I learned from my mom to own health. I also consult with her still. 
1	I knew antibiotics have to be finished completely. so With my knowledge I helped my friend to take the full course rather stopping it in the middle after she started feeling okay.
1	I went to college for nutrition/dietetic technology, so I am aware of the values of the lab tests and what they should be. I also know how I could improve my diet to lost weight and help my cholesterol numbers. I am also very aware of having to take care of myself and particularly my heart to help me live a better life. I have also suffered from depression, anxiety and PTSD for over 25 years, so I know how to avoid triggers and help myself so I can stay on a low dose of medicine.
1	I recall when my son had an accident by the door slamming to his fingers. He almost lost the tip of his fingers the doctors told me that I have the option of either amputate or go for a surgery to try to save the fingers but the chances are very slim. I asked them to give written information about the surgery and the likelihood of success. I took my time to go through the information provided and based on what they told me and my knowledge and I decided that he will go for surgery. It was one of the best decisions i have ever made, four years later my son's finger look pretty normal.
1	19 years ago my doctor told me I was diabetic. He knew me well, and said he'd give me 6 months to learn as much as I could about it and to see if I could control it on my own without medicine. If I didn't have it under control within that time (or wasn't showing improvement on subsequent visits prior to the 'deadline') he'd prescribe something to control it. I had it under control within 6 weeks. Through diet and exercise maintaining extremely tight control of my blood glucose level has become routine. I'm almost always below 90 mg/dL. I get a good night's rest to not interfere with my 'dawn effect.'
-1	When I tried to lose weight a few years ago I created an eating plan that was very healthy and I actually ate everything i needed to eat and was losing weight fast without starving.
1	When I was only 16 or 17 I had a gland that was swollen.  Being that I do get nervous about health related things, I did my own research before seeing the doctor.  This was just shortly before the internet took off.  I had a book that explained what my issue was, with the specific name of the gland.  When I visited the doctor, I used that name to tell him what I thought was wrong with me.  He was very surprised that I had any idea what it was, and said that I was correct.  This example explains just many instances like this I have had in my life with doctors.  I apparently surprised them with how much I know.  I do this because it lessens anxiety to have as much information as possible.
1	I was talking to my doctor after a visit and I mentioned that I saw the AHA had changed the guidelines on cholesterol. He had heard about it too and we had a discussion about cholesterol numbers.
-1	I have low blood sugar and my doctor explained the need for me to eat 6 small meals a day and make sure I eat complex carbohydrates and protein at each of those meals.  I understand that doing this will keep my blood sugar level and I will feel better.
-1	I eat very well. I know a lot about which foods are healthy and which are not. Every meal I eat is very healthy.
-1	I had high cholesterol when I went to the doctors 3 months ago. I decided to go on a vegetarian diet to lower my cholesterol and take fish oil 3 times daily.
1	I have a family tree of cancer, Both my parents, my sister, and also many of my relative had diagnosed as cancer in their life. So, I know that I'd better having physical exam at least once a year and early detection will save my life when I become cancer.
1	I had to have a mammagram. It was very confusing because they spoke aboout fasle positives, cystic lumps, and fatty tissue all playing a factor. I had no clue what they were talking about for the msot part. I just wanted a clear answer to if I was okay or not. 
-1	A time in my life when I displayed knowledge of health and science would be my freshman year of college when I passed Biology 2 with a breeze while everybody else was struggling to maintain a C average, that's when I knew I exceeded in science.
-1	exercising everyday for at least 45 minutes, h elps with your heart rate, sleeping rate, lowers cholesterol, muscle tone. stretching helps with overall well being.
1	when my husband fell and broke his nose, he also got a concussion.  He kept asking me the same questions over and over, which indicated short term memory loss. He also lost a lot of blood.  The paramedics came  and took him in the ambulance.  I called them because I thought there might be a head or neck injury, and I didnt want to move him and make it worse,
1	I was able to cure a bout of strep throat in myself without the help of antibiotics.  When I found out that I had it I researched it and discovered that I could use household products to kill the bacteria and that it would likely go away on its own if I waited long enough.
1	When I was pregnant my Doctor always was so surprised that I knew as much as I did. He would always go try to explain things to me and I would always start before him and tell him what he was already going to tell me. And even now with my birth control I told him things before he could even tell me.
1	I had an anxiety attack and anxiety issues that caused me to over think some things. I meditated and calmed myself down to help clear my mind and decided that what I was worried about is nothing. 
-1	When I was 6 I was diagnosed with ADD. However, my parents didn't believe it was a real thing and I certainly did not want to be that kid who had to take medicine and stuff to be smart so we went about 4 years struggling in school and at home before we decided to do our own research and I fit a lot of the criteria. When I started my medicine it was nota  good experience. I tried about 8 different kinds before I found one that worked for me. It was a lot of going back and forth and working with the doctor to find the best approach for me and to figure out what to do. 
1	Not very long ago I was diagnosed with bronchitis; The results showed that the cause was a bacteria so I was prescribed a strong antibiotic to be taken for 3 days only, which I took it and it the end the bronchitis was gone. 
1	a coworker was eating some food and their throat started to close up. They were saying that they thought they were having an allergic reaction. I happened to have some benadryl, so I gave it to them. This helped reduce the swelling of their throat while we waited for an EMT to arrive.
1	I was asked for advice from a friend regarding a medical condition that she was experiencing with her child that I also experience with my child.  Because of my history with it I was able to give advice and what to expect.
1	I am a veterinary technician student, so I demonstrate this knowledge all the time. I have a tendency to have my doctor talk to me in medical terminology. If I don't understand something because it is not used in animal health I will let her know.
-1	Recently i got a skin allergy on my back. I went to doctor for check up. I was worried because it is increasing day by day. Doctor told me not to worry that much he has given some medications. And it was healed after few days when i started medication. 
1	My insurance company wanted to charge me hundreds of dollars a year to recieve a vitamin that could be purchasd over the counter for the same effect but significiantly different price. I declined and purchaed otc and the results i needed came in spite of their recommmendation. I h a d to stand up for myself and be knowledgeable in what wAs available
-1	When I felt a lump in my right breast and immediately went to see my doctor. He checked it out and sent me to get a mammography and I found out it was caused by a car accident, I was in.
1	A friend and I were out at a restaurant one night late after having worked together, when he started seizing. We rushed to the hospital and from there I had to describe to the doctors what had happened and help take care of his information as he was unconscious. He recovered and was diagnosed with epilepsy.  
1	I think going to university helped me demonstrate my knowledge, or rather, my lack there-of. I think I only know some things about the health care industry, and I feel like they are worthwhile things to have, but they need some serious readjusting. I've only had chances to write papers or talk about these things with my friends, but never had the chance to practice these concepts in a profession.
-1	My limited knowledge of health is thanks to my time in the Boy Scouts of America. We frequently were practicing and learning about first aid and what to do in minor medical situations.
1	When my wife said her stomach was hurting she was concerned she may have been having a heart attack but knowing that at her age that it was rare and the other symptoms i felt confident telling her it was because of the leftover pizza she ate
1	For about six years, I was the full time caretaker for my grandmother. I had to know what medications she was allergic to, and monitor her pulse and blood pressure daily, and I had to adjust dosage of some of her medications depending on what the readings were, per her doctor's instructions.
1	I helped my best friend lose over 100 pounds by guiding him thru calorie counting and eating healthier meals. His blood pressure went down, his doctor told him his BMI is now in a healthy range and he was no longer on track to need medication for diabetes. He was constantly asking me questions about how to proceed and went 100% by the advice and guidance I gave him.
1	I was asked my medical history by a new doctor recently and gave her a care description. Of my families long history of medical issues including some she had never heard of.
1	I remember learning and reading about how to get rid of tics before going camping with my friend because I had a huge fear about them. Learning about this knowledge helped me help my friend, who ended up being the one to catch a tic. I was able to help him work through the process of removing the tic before it burrowed down too far.
1	I've often had to monitor my own blood sugar blood pressure to change my dosages of certain medications because my doctors have me on a flexible dosage that I need to adjust based on my current numbers. 
-1	When I was dealing with acute bronchitis, I realized there was only so much I could do aside from taking antibiotics. I realized there were certain foods that actually helped me feel better
-1	I was able to follow directions and change my diet to lower my cholesterol.  I was able to do this via my doctors instructions.
-1	I was on a plan going to Florida and all of a sudden I started sweating and could really breath, so of course the brought me one of those tanks to help me breath.  I went to the doctor when we landed.  They kept me overnight to run test they found an irregular heart beat, high cholesterol, and high blood pressure. They pumped floods in my because I was also dehydrated.  Scary moment 
1	My dad is a diabetic.  I have conversations with him often about his condition.  I often give him suggestions on foods that he could eat that are low in carbohydrates to try to help him lower his blood sugar. 
-1	My wife went to the ER and I knew what was wrong with her. The doctor's said exactly what I had synthesized from reading online and from institution. 
-1	My son had quite a few ear infections as a baby and into toddlerhood.  When my daughter was born, I knew the signs to look for in order to take her to be seen.  Luckily, she never had an eardrum rupture (as my son did) due to my knowledge of the ear canal and what to watch for.  I felt more on top of things with my sencond child, medically speaking.
1	I have a friend that is diabetic. She has a pump that constantly pumps insulin in to her. We went on a trip to New York and we were sightseeing. Suddenly Christine did not seem right. She seemed spacey but said she felt fine. I stopped at a street vendor and got her an ice cream cone as that was all that was around. She had that and was just fine after that. I knew what to watch for with her and what to do. 
1	I had chest pains and knew I needed to call the doctor's office. I read up on symptoms and talked to the scheduler about various options. I did not go to the emergency room but made an appointment for the first possible opening with a physician. 
1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when i started having symptoms of a concussion. I knew what to look for and what it was. 
-1	When I was a smoker, I had seen many commercials explaining how dangerous they can be. I also worked with a lot of people who smoked. Seeing them all begin to cough and hack made me wise up and kick the habit. 
-1	My grandpa came home on hospice and needed his oxygen concentrator set up at his house. The hospice company delivered it but no one stuck around to hook him up to it. I was able to figure out from some past experience how to add water to the cannister and set the appropriate flow rate for him. 
1	Someone asked me about their chest hurting and their fingers getting numb and I was able to help them decide not to spend money and go to the ER for a heart attack because it was actually a panic attack. 
1	I don't have an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I guess when my mom was going through chemo I had some instructions on how to care for her, so I followed that. 
1	When my son had bronchitis, I was fully able to understand the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis overall of how this would affect him at that time and also potentially in the future. 
1	My sister was diagnosed with ovarian cancer, stage 3C. I was able to tell her about the different options for treatment. 
-1	I found out over 10 years back I had a mitral valve prolapse. I knew nothing at first but learned about this through research over time. I learned this can be a genetic defect where both heart valves do not close completely. I educated myself.
-1	the only knowledge i have about health issue is the ones my doctor told me about. that is what is making this task difficult for me to handle now.
1	I guess when I get sick I am able to know the difference between viral and bacterial diseases. I am able to know that I don't always get antibiotics (they aren't always effective or useful) and that I shouldn't ask the doctor for them.
-1	I've never really had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues, but in every case i have made an effort to treat my health situation as best as possible.
-1	I've worked as a CNA for a few years.  I also have a few minor health problems. I read on health related issues occasionally too. I like to be in the know.  I'm terrible with math so all my answers are probably wrong.  
1	When I had stomach pain one night, I noticed that it didn't go away even after using the bathroom and that the pain was localized to the lower right quadrant of my stomach.  I felt like this could be appendicitis, so I went to the doctor and a CT scan confirmed this.  I had to have an appendectomy that same night.
-1	Once my knee was swollen up so bad and before we went to the doctor i looked up my symptoms via webmd and found out i had an inflammed bursa also i successfully diagnosed my wifes gall bladder attacks.
1	When I realized I have slightly high blood pressure, I made an effort to start exercising more often. I know that exercise is one way to help lower blood pressure. Since it is not too high, that may be enough without any medication. 
1	When I was trying to lose weight for my wedding, I vigorously kept track of the calories I consumed by reading every label and went running everyday. I made sure that I was at a calorie deficit everyday to ensure that I was losing weight.
1	My care for my mother with Alzheimers disease. I have read several books and spoken many times with her doctor on how to properly care for her. I know how to give her the medications she needs, move her without injuring her and feed her without causing choking.
1	I try to keep up on health related current events.  I am well versed in the flu and was actually hospitalized several years ago because I was so sick. I knew based on my symptoms and that my fever was increasing to get help.
1	I work with children and often have to deal with minor injuries and illness and decide what might need medical attention. This includes monitoring fevers and knowing when they need to see a doctor.
1	My obtaining a degree in biology required me to show that I have knowledge of at least some health or medical issues. I didn't do pre-med though so I haven't had advanced studies in the subject.
-1	My mother and grandmother are both cancer patients and I attended a lot of the appointments with the many doctors and took notes for them.
1	I recently had to take my son to the doctor because he had a very high fever and a sore throat.  At the same time, he was showing flu like symptoms.  The nurse only wanted to test for strep but I asked her to test for flu as well so that we could rule out either or both.
1	The only incident that stands out was when my mother began to have somewhat of a reaction to her low blood sugar. She wasn't able to communicate very well, but i knew right away what was going on and what she needed.
-1	I was able to make informed decisions in regards to receiving eating disorder treatment. I selected the right treatment sentence for me. 
1	I was in a group of friends, when suddenly, one of our friends started to act strange. People were jumping to several conclusions of what it was, but no one really knew. I called 911, and approached my friend, to observe better. I reported to the operator that I believed my friend was having a stroke, and went through the standard diagnostics to confirm this, while we awaited an ambulance.
1	The only real experience would be when I was young in Boy Scouts and we learned first aid for many different injuries and illnesses. We demonstrated that knowledge every year in an annual first aid competition where we were given different scenarios and judged on how we handled the incident.
1	There's not too many to list for me. I tend to defer to someone else. However, there have been various times where I've commented (ie: on social media) with my understanding of issues that I have experience with. For example, a couple years ago I explained to a worried young male what a varicocele was.
1	These questions were not nessasaraly about knowledge of health, they are more about the knowledge of math.  I learned a lot about my health after I blew out my knee
1	I had trouble getting pregnant so I had to do IVF. I ended up doing lots of research on my own to come up with a plan with my doctor to get pregnant. I suggested some medications that were newly researched to my doctor.
1	I guess I would talk about times that I take my kids to the doctor.  I understand what their blood pressure, temp. and other vital signs should be.  This always me to ask intelligant questions or express my concerns. 
1	I once started to feel sick and had symptoms similar to a cold. The cold lasted more than a week but everything except a cough remained. I felt like something was wrong so I looked things up and found I may have had bronchitis. I went to the doctor's office and they also agreed that I likely had bronchitis. 
-1	I was able to research a procedure that my husband had to have. It was a scary time because he had to go under, but the knowledge gained eased the stress.
1	I was having a lot of trouble sleeping for a prolonged period of time.  The doctor believed I need to take anti anxiety medication, but I was sure that I did not.  The doctor tried prescribing me two different types of meds at two different time points, but I declined both and opted for a sleep medication instead.  I took that for a period of time and then my sleep returned to normal, which it still is. 
-1	Get a dictionary of medical terms and look up the ones you don't know in your reading material. Use the terms in sentences until they make sense. Audit some classes having to do with nursing and medicine at your local college. Go online and read medical articles that have to do with your particular medical interests.
-1	My son has adhd and i basically did extensive research and diagnosed that he had before it was told to us by a dr. I compared many different articles and symptoms to pinpoint what i thought it may be.  This help me understand not just what he has but how it's so many similar diseases.  
-1	I had a baby recently and spent some time in and around the hospital for sometime. I had some complications and had to run several test and had several month working on health issues.
1	I have had a lot of medical issues in my life which help  my knowledge. I also previously was an LPN for about nine years which help contribute to my medical knowledge that I have.
1	I went to the doctor to get bloodwork done because I was noticing some symptoms that could be caused by various medical conditions, including thyroid or dietary issues. I knew which issues to mention to the doctor to be screened.
1	I take my blood pressure readings on a fairly consistant basis.  I noticed that my readings were creeping upwards and I was at the same time feeling other odd syntoms, such as my arm hurting.  I called my doctor and suggested I have a stress test to see if some significant was going on.
-1	Having been reading health materials and also being literate. Some health information are basic and most of it are derived from calculations so it is easy to describe the real situation
1	I worked with children with severe and profound illnesses as a result I learned a number of basic medical techniques including tube feeding, IV maintenance, and other low level tasks that I would have to perform in an emergency.  In addition the necessity of understanding medical issues with a rare disease gets much higher since many doctors have never heard of my condition. 
-1	my life experience while i visit hospitals sometime i observe a few doctors and patients so i know what what its life to pay attention to all the issues and treat them 
1	I feel I have the basic knowledge of health or medical issues. I am always leaning to learn more about human's body from medical side. And i can deal with small issues and make judgement about if i need more care
1	I had a missed miscarriage and was scheduled for a D&C the following morning.  A few years later a friend was also experiencing a missed miscarriage and her doctor gave her the option to wait and miscarry naturally or have the D&C.  I was able to discuss my experience with her and what I learned after my surgery was complete.  My experience was able to help her make her own decision.  
-1	I helped my sister when she fell and sprained her ankle. Helped her elevate it and put ice  on it until she could get to a doctor
1	I previously worked in the emergency room as a behavioral health technician. It was my job to behavioral and medical concerns. Abbreviations were commonly used by physicians, so I needed to interpret certain paperwork that patients gave to me from their physicians. 
1	My mother had a stroke; the treating physician considered administering TPA to reduce the chance of further damage due to clots that blocked blood flow. I knew TPA could reduce clotting so much that bleeding could occur in the brain. I and the doctor weighed the risk of continued brain damage due to clots versus potential damage from bleeding and agreed to administer TPA. She did not suffer any additional mental episodes during that treatment.
1	I was having severe headaches for a few years. I went around to various physicians/specialists for testing and everything under the sun. I questioned all of them about whether or not my neck could be the culprit of my headaches, and they all just laughed at me. I did my research and found a physical therapist who specialized in neck issues and sure enough, it was absolutely an issue with my neck that was causing my headaches.
1	I cannot recall any experience that has demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues because I am not familiar with these. At least I recognize which type of doctors I have to visit in order to get correct analysis and treatment. My most recent experience involved a pain I was having in one of my shoulders for a long time. I knew I had to go see an orthopedist who checked and diagnosed me. 
-1	I do my own research on the internet and ask friends. A doctor once misdiagnosed my appendicitis. I   have an appendix that points backward instead of forward in my body, so the symptoms present were in a different location. I researched and found this information.
1	Recently my husband came home complaining that he ached all over. I realized that was probably the flu and got him to the walk-in clinic the same day. He was prescribed Tamiflu, which greatly reduced his discomfort.
1	Last month, I what seemed like pretty standard pharyngitis for a few days. However, one day it progressed into ear symptoms and tremendous pressure and I knew that I had a middle ear infection. I called the physician (spending several hundred dollars to confirm what I already knew), got antibiotics, and since I was proactive and caught it quickly rather than waiting, there wasn't any hearing damage or other lasting effects.  
1	My mother's diagnosis of a rare, life-threatening blood disease required I become familiar with several basic medical practices and procedures.
1	My most knowledgeable experience was when I had a cardiac ablation for AFib. I had done quite a bit of research on my own and my cardiologist explained everything so thoroughly that I felt I knew what was going to happen each step of the way leading to the procedure and then through recovery.
1	I had to go to the doctor once because I was having headaches and I was getting out of breath going up stairs and when I was working and I told the doctor I thought my blood pressure was too high and it was. 
1	I mean, I take very good care of myself, and I often give people nutrition and health advice. I dealt with mental illness (depression and anxiety) for years until I finally decided I needed to tackle it from all sides and finally get rid of it. This involved a great deal of research and realizing just how important physical self-care was for mental health. This was something I had neglected for years, especially in terms of sleep and nutrition. So I finally started getting enough sleep on a regular basis, eating healthy, and taking carefully selected supplements that are helpful for mental and general health, and overcame mental illness for good.
1	I was having trouble having normal sleep patterns.  I didn't drink caffeine or do anything abnormal within 6hours of my desired bed time, yet i still never could go to bed at my desired bed time.  Worst yet I would experience symptoms such as a fast heart beat, tingly feelings in my appendages and high chest pressure when I laid down.  I figured out my above normal intake of sugar, caffeine, nicotine early in the day caused this and once I stopped the nicotine and reduce consumption of caffeine and sugar the aforementioned side effects stopped.
-1	A couple of years back I had gone in for a routine mammogram and since some abnormality was detected I was asked to undergo a biopsy which , thankfully, was found to be negative. I was glad I had this test done.
1	I was walking up a steep hill and slipped.  I fell and skid on my knees for several feet down the hill.  My knees were cut up badly and there was dirt and rocks in my knees.  Based on my previous medical knowledge I just went home, cleaned the area out with soap and water.  Scrubbed the area down really well, applied antibiotic ointment and gauze covering and it healed on it's own.
1	I have had some first aid training in my life.  I have also had the experience of take care of my family and myself when someone was sick.  
-1	My neighbor got stung by a wasp last year.  He was stung on the neck.  The sting was very red and swelling fast.  I took him to the emergency room.  He found out he was allergic and it waas a good thing I took him on to the emergency room.
1	I went for a physical exam and was told I had high blood pressure.  I already was familiar with the condition because there are people in my family who have the same condition.  I was aware of the type of medication that could be prescribed to me.
-1	When I went to the doctor and they explained to me the chances of heart disease, I new the numbers and understood the percentages right away.
-1	One time we were at a restaurant and my brother started choking on a spicy shrimp, and I successfully performed the Heimlich maneuver on him.
1	I had a Vitamin D defiency and when my brother mentioned he was tired more and sleeping more too I told him he should take some Vitamin D to help with that because that was how I felt too when I was defient.
-1	My doctor has given me a lot of information on my past medical history and illnesses. They give me information on what I need to watch out for and how I can deal with symptoms.
1	I was in the military and during my years in the service, I maintained a combat medic certification. This was an annual certification that required continuing education classes in order to keep up to date.
1	Many years ago, I had pneumonia that started with the flu, and ever since then, I have had annual flu shots (and, in the past decade, annual pneumonia shots as well). I am aware of the fact that the shots are only effective against a few very common strains of flu, but also know that if I do get the flu, it will be less severe than if I didn't have the shot. 
1	During my junior year of college I had a cyst in my ovary. I was able to identify exactly were the pain was and what I thought it was based on the internet and using my instincts and all of the signs. 
1	Once I was shadowing a physician prior to begging medical school. The physician asked me (in front of the patient), if the patient started off with a throat infection, and eventually developed an ear infection, how did this come about? I responded with, either the eustachian tube, or a superimposed infection brought on by the weak immune system. He told me great job and correct. Patient looked at me with pride. 
1	One experience in my life that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when my grandfather started to suffer from a heart attack. I saw the symptoms. 
1	After years of going to the allopathic doctor and getting lots of tests done and very little answers, I stopped listening to mainstream medicine and started learning about naturopathic medicine.  I felt awful and had difficultly thinking clearly often. I started taking vitamin B-12 tincture, nascent iodine, and did a parisite cleanse (which includes micro-organisms, not just the FDA's definition of a parisite), and for the first time in my life I can think clearly by default and stopped taking prescription medication for ADD.
-1	I actually worked as Director of Risk Management in a large hospital.  Within that role, I was required to know many aspects of healthcare.  I was exposed to tremendous amounts of medical knowledge and terms.  Working alongside doctors and nurses, I picked up a lot of medical terminology.  However, since that time, I have lost much of my ability to remember much of what I learned due to the toll my illnesses have taken on me.  Also, having to go to the doctor often increases my medical knowledge.  Unfortunately, I can't retain most of it.
1	As a hypochondriac I do a lot of research on different health issues, so when my friend was experiencing digestive issues, I questioned him regarding his symptoms and then accurately guessed his condition, which was later verified by his doctor.
1	My mother is diabetic and has several other health issues and a history of cancer and more recently heart disease. Because I have spent so much time at hospitals with her, I am accustomed to the signs and affects of certain different health issues. I can usually help her before she even asks just by observing how she is feeilng
-1	Both when I received the news that I had fibroids and it was causing infertility issues.  I researched the best options for dealing with them and consulted my doctor after that. I cut certain things out of my diet and then had surgery. I am hopping to be able to conceive in the meet few months. 
1	Over the course of several days, I've noticed my roommate has stayed in the bathroom for long periods throwing up. His diet isn't the best, as he consumes a lot of sugary foods/drinks such as soda and candy as well as eating a lot of fast food. I told him his symptoms reminded me of someone who has acid reflux and searched online to confirm these symptoms. When he got officially diagnosed by a doctor, it was confirmed. 
-1	I was told a few years ago that I needed to have major surgery, and what the recovery process would be like afterwards. So, I remember that I researched as much as I could and I thought ahead of any questions that I could ask when I sat down for my consultation with the surgeon.
1	A doctor told me to get the flu vaccine during pregnancy. My friend is against vaccinations, especially during pregnancy, and told me not to get it. I did some research on the topic and found out for myself that I should get the vaccine because the risks to my baby seemed to be lower if I did.
1	I had some odd symptoms last year that were not going away on their own, and was trying to find out information online.  I eventually self diagnosed myself with shingles, as what I had looked like the images I found online.  I went to the doctor for confirmation and a prescription, and he said it was indeed shingles, and prescribed me antibiotics which cleared it up pretty quickly.
-1	guess i'm not doing so well at the math so maybe i do have difficulties understanding health info. but that's not old age, i've always been like that
1	"Last time I went to the doctor I was given a new prescription and when I was asked if I had any questions or wanted more information on the prescription I reiterated to the doctor everything I had learned from the information included to make sure I understood everyting correctly, and all the doctor need to say was ""Great, there's nothing more I need to teach you!"" as I did indeed read correctly everything that was given to me."
-1	Had an ache in my side for several days before I made it to the doctor. In the meantime, I took care of it as a kidney infection (correctly) because I knew that was where my kidney was and saw my symptoms.
1	My grandfather went to the urologist and had a PSA blood test done.  I knew from his results, being over 3.0, that this meant he would likely need a biopsy to test for prostate cancer.  I also knew that these tests could produce higher than normal levels if the patient has an enlarged prostate.  I asked to see his former results.  They were up and down a lot, which is typically a sign that there is NOT prostate cancer, but instead, an enlarged prostate.  I also knew that an enlarged prostate could be due to prostatitis, an infection of the prostate.  Sure enough, he went back to the doctor to follow up, and turned out to have a prostate infection.
-1	When I was in my friend's house and she began to have a big headache, I cured here giving a pill that quits most of headaches in an hour. She thanked me a lot and decided to buy this pill too. I'm always prepared to these cases because I know there are frequent.
1	My husband's cholesterol is high.  We talked to the doctor and then looked up information to see what target number we needed to get him to.  Then we researched on our own and followed information the doctor gave us to determine the changes we could make in our diet and exercise program to help bring his cholesterol down.  We were able to facilitate that change enough in 6 months to avoid needing to have him take medication.
1	I was a medical coder and biller for 6 months. I had to read the doctor's dictations and assign each surgery or visit a code to be paid by the insurance companies.
1	 About ten years ago I was out at a bar with a friend of mine. We had a few drinks and then caught the bus back to my house. We were sitting in the living room trying to decide what to order for dinner  when he started to complain about feeling dizzy. He excused himself and went to the bathroom. A few minutes later I heard a loud thud and went to go check on him. The door was open and he was having a seizure on the floor. I pulled him by the shoulders out of the small bathroom and into the larger adjacent room. I elevated his head on my knees and stuck my leather wallet between his teeth. After about ten seconds or so he calmed down. He was kind of out of it so I called an ambulance for him. He was ok in the end but is now on medication.
1	When I was in high school myself and bunch of friends were at a friends house one of my friends fell and twisted her ankle badly. I carried her to the house elevated and iced her foot until someone was able to take her to the doctors. She had a bad sprain, with a lot of swelling.
1	I worked as a medical receptionist at an ear, nose, throat clinic for 2 years. There I learned a lot of medical lingo and how things are run behind the scenes at a clinic.
1	i was talking to my sister about flu shots and the ages of children being able to get their flu shots and what options are available for people who are older or that have certain allergies to be able to get their flu shots.
1	When I was taking care of my grandfather when he was undergoing dialysis, I had to read plenty of forms and research the procedures, remedies, and prognoses online.
-1	I was told that I had pneumonia but they could not determine whether or not it was viral or bacterial and rushed to prescribe me antibiotics and an inhaler. I looked up all of the options and decided that it was prudent for me to take this medication.
-1	i am not a doctor or nurse so i do not have a lot experience in being right over their knowedge at all. i have no experience where i would consider myself more knowledgeable than them,. that would be arrogant and i would not understand someone doing that.
1	My son has asthma. I am aware of when an asthma attack is coming on and treat it as fast as possible. My son tend to wait until his asthma is getting out of control before informing me about it. i have had to learn to be watchful and to also teach him warning sign so that we can keep it under control with out frequent visits to the ER.
1	When I went to the doctors for a checkup we talked about getting a flu shot. I explained how I heard the flu shot wasn't effective at the time and I'd be better taking my chances and not getting it. The doctor agreed and I didn't get sick that winter.
1	I had to take care of my mom after surgery, and I had to follow procedures and follow instructions to help take care of her for 2 weeks, my aunt is a nurse, and my cousin is a paramedic. I also had basic medical knowledge when I was a lifeguard.
1	I was able to accompany my husband to the doctor and request a limited prescription for Xanax after researching fast acting medications that would allow him to be on a plane (he has anxiety about crashing) without ruining the vacation of the rest of us. 
1	I was having lower ab pain. I thought it might be constipation or some other easy fixed issue. I tried several other over the counter meds to fix the issue. Once it didnt subside for several days and got worse in pain, I went to an urgent care center. Rather than going at the first feeling of discomfort I tried a few methods myself before seeking medical attention from a doctor.
-1	I have a health condition. When  I went to the er I was very knowledgable of what the doctor was asking in regards to my condition. 
1	My son had cancer when he was younger. The amount of information a parent is presented with and feel overwhelming. Because of knowledge of medical issues it was much easier for me to handle the information and i experienced less stress in dealing with the issues and caring for my son.
-1	I take care of dependent adults with disabilities and assist them with their medications and appointments this has helped me gain a little knowledge
1	I have grown up around medical professionals, as stated earlier in the survey. There are multiple experiences that show my medical knowledge. I have learned to set IV's, give injections, learned (put never performed) a tracheotomy, and more. For one specific example, I will talk about injections. My father was diagnosed with Low-T, and given a testosterone booster (that he later dismissed and stopped taking, in lieu of his beta blockers). My brother taught me how to sterilize the injection site and my hands, properly take precautions such as gloves, and how to inject and administer the drug (through a slightly forceful, straight motion, applying the dose over a period of roughly 15 seconds into the gluteous maximus).
1	When a family member was having symptoms of a heart attack I knew they should go to the emergency room based on those symptoms. I have other family members who have heart problems, and I worry myself, so I have read a lot of information, and gained a lot of knowledge about heart disease from my doctor.
-1	When my son was sick with chicken pox I knew it was chicken pox by his symptoms and by the look of it and I've never seen chicken pox before
1	Well, when I had blood in my urine, I knew I was either having a kidney problem or a bladder problem.  After having tests run, and getting to see both a kidney specialist and an urologist, it was found that I had bladder cancer.
1	I had to live through my mothers cancer surgery, chemo, recovery. I was the one talking to all the doctors, and my mother was able to follow all of the instructions.
1	I really can't think of a particularly good example.  I guess recently I've been watching what I eat and working out more, and as a result I've lost fat and gained muscle mass.
1	I broke my foot a couple weeks ago. Going in I was very clear about my questions, asked about the options, and volunteered what I knew the treatment would likely be if the x-rays came back in the affirmative. 
1	There is no one experience. Experience is built up over a life time. Obviously without medical schooling a person is limited on how much knowledge they could have. I would say I had a complex medical issue years ago that I used the Internet and doctors to attempt to resolve. 
-1	When I decided to get on the depo shot and, my gyn was explaining the risk/side effects. She talked about how depo would affect my bones so I needed to take some form of calcium.
1	My friend developed symptoms of losing weight, feeling tired, coughing, and sinus problems. I have known people with these symptoms who had lung cancer. I urged my friend to see a doctor, and he found that he did have cancer.
1	My husband wanted me to take our youngest son to the ER. I told him that there wasn't anything they could do, I'll be told to push fluids and have him rest because it's just viral and had to run its course. Went to the ER in the middle of night and that's exactly what I was told to do, $200 later. 
-1	A friend of mine messaged me with a complaint about a pain in her side, after she described the pain, I told her to that it was appendicitis and to get to hospital. She went to the hospital and had emergency surgery to remove her appendix that same day,
1	so my grandfather had a lung cancer and it was stage 2  and doctor commanded chemotherapy but the family was against it  so it did my research and convince them that  chemotherapy show positive result .
-1	I am knowledgeable about health issues when it comes to nutrition and eating right. When I buy food I read the labels and avoid food with high amounts of sodium and fat.
-1	When I was pregnant they were testing me for Preeclampsia every time I went to see the doctor. All the tests were coming back negative. When i was in my third trimester i started feeling sick, I always felt like I had high blood pressure. I felt like I was slowly developing preeclampsia. Tests for some reason were not showing anything even though i felt all the symptoms of preeclampsia. At 39 weeks tests finally showed it and i was hospitalized and induced the same day due to severe preeclampsia. 
1	When my wife was having our daughter, I researched a lot of the different drugs and prodecdures that were going. I asked the nurses and doctors about what was going on and if there would be any side effects to the drugs. For her and the baby as well. I tried to be informed as possible with everything going on.
1	When I went to the doctor this morning he went over a number of items and I had no issues understanding them.
1	An experience in life that demonstrated my health knowledge was when i had a job in high school and a kid asked me how to not get a girl pregnant. Then the question led me to tell him that their are birth control pills that a woman can take to not get themselves pregnant.
1	I was watching a football game and a player landed awkwardly and his knee bent at a abnormal angle, I said aloud to myself that he probably tore his ACL, which in fact he did.
1	I had a co-worker who got told she had diabetes. My best friend growing up had type 1 diabetes and my Nana had type 2, so I talked with her awhile about what to expect, what stable blood pressure looked like, and what types of food to eat and which to avoid.
1	I was on a medication that had a side effect of lowering blood pressure, and my doctor had added another medication at night that also had that side effect, which I was only to take if I wasn't at all dizzy. Since the second medication worked very well for the symptoms for which it was prescribed, I suggested possibly changing the other medication to something else, since it wasn't as good at controlling the symptoms for which it was prescribed as the new medication. My doctor agreed.
1	After having several kidney stones I knew what my pain was and I also knew what the procedure was to remedy the problem.
1	I worked for a medical software company and so that gave me an extended vocabulary surrounding medical conditions. Beyond that my father is diabetic and has had a heart attack.
1	I was able to assist an elderly woman who we were friends with with her blood sugar. She was getting sick and it turns out that her blood sugar was getting too high because of her sweet potato consumption. She thought only desserts and things with added sugar would spike her blood sugar.
1	I have asthma, so constantly throughout my life I have had to be very careful of my breathing so that I do not have an asthma attack, where my breathing gets super labored. I need to be mindful of my limitations so that I do not exacerbate my condition.
-1	I was have some hormonal problems and I knew through research, that I was peri-menopausal.  I feel like the knowledge I had before seeing the doctor was beneficial for me so would come up with a plan together
1	A girl in my dance class complained that whenever she bent forward and stayed there for more than a few seconds, the blood rushed to her head and she got black spots in her vision. I told her that it was because she has low blood pressure, as the same thing happens to myself and my father for the same reason. 
1	When my children have not been feeling well, I've been able to get them what they need to feel better. Ex. tylenol for teething, etc.  
1	Throughout my adult life, I have had to make many medical decisions. I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues when my grandmother was diagnosed with stage 4 ovarian cancer last year. I had to explain to the rest of my family what the doctors were talking about and how the procedures would go, etc.
-1	I have had unknown leg pain most of my life. I injured my back quite a few years ago, and I  have worked in a hospital a few years ago. I have take medical terminology classes. Biology classes. As well as as a few other classes to be a Naturopathic Practitioner.  I have yet to take the Anatomy classes.
1	Just the typical health classes in high school and college. As well as the times I've been to the doctor for high blood pressure and heart palpitations.
-1	I went to the cardiologist when I had unusual pain in the center of my chest. I told him due to the nature of the pain and the heart disease history of my family I felt I needed an angioplasty to check for blockages. It turned out I needed a stent.
1	working in a hospital and radiology office in the past has inhanced my knowledge of medical issues.  I did ultrasounds for 7 years,  and it taght me many things about healthcare.
1	I was having a certain problem that often can be mistaken for another very common health problem.  After many doctors visits, lab tests all coming back negative. There was still no resolution to my problem. With my own research and persistence I was able to present the Doctor with a possible diagnosis and once we both agree and I was given treatment my symptoms were almost gone or at least quite managable. 
-1	When I had my daughter my Dr. insisted we delivery 4 weeks early due to me having a previous classic c section to avoid the risk of going into labor. I researched the topic so I knew this wasn't best for my baby and was unnecessary. I tried to argue my point but the Dr. would not listen to me. My baby turned blue while rooming in with me and had to be put in the NICU for 21 days due to immaturity. Ten years later when I had my son the laws had been changed to not allow my baby to be taken more than 2 weeks earlier due to the NICU cost of doctors like the one I had with my daughter taking babies too early in situations like mine where there was a previous classic c section. My son was taken at 38 weeks and was fine. He went home the next day with me.
-1	 I used to work in the public school system. I worked with a teacher who was a Type One diabetic. I also had a son in law at the time who was a Type One diabetic. I had witnessed my son in law's struggles with blood sugar ups and downs,and had seen him suffering from a complication of diabetes,known as Ketoacidosis. Because of my hands on experience with my son in law,I was able to recognize the signs and symptoms in the teacher I worked with,when she fell ill one day. I was able to summon help for her and give my opinion on what was going on with her in the moment,health-wise. It turned out I was correct and that she did indeed have Ketoacidosis.
-1	I guess the only time  can think of was when I was a teenager and my friends little brother cut and scraped his knee. I knew to pick him up and clean the wound and bandage it so it wouldnt scar too badly.
-1	When I sprained my knee in a third world country. I had to rely on my own and online research.  I did not have the chance to go to the doctor because of the country.
-1	I suppose this would have been associated with my father's cancer, where I had to essentially inform myself about the things he should/shouldn't eat during that point in time, especially since he didn't clearly discuss these issues since I was a teenager (he didn't want me worrying).
-1	A lot of the time I am the one that suggest meds to my doctors after studying about them with the Physicians Desk Reference and other reference material. Most of the time the doctor will go with my suggestion
1	An instance in my life that demonstrated medical issues is when i was pregnant and put on bedrest  I was very aware of how to act, what to do and not to do.  I was able to carry to full term when only given a 30% chance of it
1	Three years ago i was diagnosed with severe osteoporosis. All I knew about the disease was that I did not want it. So I went online and researched extensively about the causes, treatments and prognosis. Armed with this new information I went to my doctor and we discussed in some depth what our best form of treatment should be. I then went back online and looked further, using my own research and the expertise of my doctor. We then came to a suitable treatment to best help me.
1	I have hemolytic anemia, the cause of which is not certain. I have had to research and learn on my own the possibilities which could have led to this situation and aid in my own knowledge to help my physician figure out what the next step is and how to control it.
1	I wife was diagnosed with cysts on her uterus. I was able to understand what this meant and what needed to be done to treat this medical condition. Everything the doctor told me made sense and I was not confused by the medical terminology used.
-1	A time where I had I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues is when I started to see a new primary care doctor and I had to explain to him about the rhemutoid arthitis that I have been diagnoised with and also explain about the uveitits that I have 
1	I feel like going through the process of having a baby has helped educate me in terms of health and medical issues. I read up on various medical issues that could happen during pregnancy and delivery. 
1	I sought treatment for what I thought was social anxiety disorder, just by doing research on the internet. When I went to see a psychologist, they confirmed that I did indeed have social anxiety disorder
-1	I went to a clinic to test my body fat percentage and I could follow almost all of what the nurse was telling me about my body.  
-1	I have often had to look up medical questions. I really feel like I know nothing about medicine. I just learn from looking it up
1	I have been a home health aide taking care of multiple people. I have a lot of experience dealing with doctors and hospitals.
-1	I learned a lot about health issues when my appendix burst. I had to do research on what to eat and what medications to take
1	I have had a history of lower back disc issues as a result of a lifting injury about 8 years ago. I have since seen multiple back pain specialists and physical therapists and have learned how the injury ocurred and what to avoid doing in order to not re-aggravate it. As a result, I try and pass on the knowledge to other people who are dealing with similar back issues and refer them to doctors that have helped improve my condition. 
1	In 1995, I came down with an extreme flu-like illness that I almost died from. Several years later, after researching the information online and talking with my doctor, i came to the conclusion that i had Hanta-virus due to living in close quarters with a field mouse that infected me. 
1	I do not have a lot of experience because i have been pretty healthy my whole life. My parents have only had a few issues that I know about 
1	My daughter had a urinary tract infection and I could tell by the pain in her urination. I knew this could be cured with some antibiotics and lots of pure cranberry juice to clear her system as well as better hygiene practices. We went to the doctor anyway to confirm and were told to do exactly as I thought.
1	When I was in high school I dislocated my elbow and could not afford physical therapy so I had to do it myself. The exercises and stretches were painful but appropriate in learning to use my arm again
1	when i was in the coast guard, i learned how to do the heimlich maneuver to save people from choking. it's nothing i've ever had to use on someone, and i'm glad, but i still remember how to do it in case i ever need to.
1	There was a time where I had a rash and  I didn't know what it was because allergy medicines weren't working. I looked up multiple rashes online and found out about eczema, so I got some treatment for it and it helped take the rash away.
1	I knew I had GERD after realizing that some over-the counter medications were no longer effective in treating my symptoms.  had also noticed that something as simple as drinking a glass of water too fast would trigger heart burn and a great deal of discomfort. 
1	I lift weights 3 days per week and do 4+ total hours of cardio per week, in addition to walking at least 7 hours per week (I have a desk job, so even though I'd like more than that, I am content with 7). I do this because I understand muscle mass is important, and can be harder to put on as one ages. Also, strength training can help with bone density, which is useful especially as women age. I also want good cardiovascular health. This is all because people in my family tend to live to be quite old (my great-grandmother is 96!), but not necessarily with a great quality of life, and I want to have a great quality of life as I age.
1	I was at the doctor's office and they were explaining to me what it meant to have high blood pressure, the potential complications that it can cause, and what I need to change in my life in order to get my blood pressure under control. I understand all of the information they gave to me, I implemented it and I had a normal blood pressure reading 6 months later at my next visit.
-1	A time in my life that demonstrated I had knowledge of health issues was when I started taking care of my 81 year old grandmother. She was very sick with multiple illnesses and I had to learn about them all and learn about her medications and the things I needed to do to be able to take care of her properly.
1	I was told that I have some salt deposits on my kidneys. I drink quite a bit of water now so that I can avoid getting more deposits or worse yet kidney stones.
1	When I was 19 I found out I had developed acute scoliosis, There was a former coworker of mine who kept complaining about the fact that they were having lower back issues constantly and ran down all the sympoms and the times they generally have them. I informed them of my condition and told them that they may at least want to get examined to see what it was but that it in fact was the exact same thing I was dealing with and that scoliosis may indeed be the cause. Well it was. I was able to discuss with them ways I coped and the things I've done to ease the pain somewhat.
-1	My experience in life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was the last year when I had to help a old lady in the street.
-1	I've helped others with mental illness. I've had pretty unique experiences with mental health that has led me to advising others. Answering questions for people. 
1	I have supported my parents through many difficult and challenging medical issues. Ensuring that I stayed engaged in all discussions regarding care and treatment plans with their doctors and nurses when hospitalized has created my understanding and I've honed it with independent research and support from friends and family.
1	I cannot think of a time in my life where I had the chance to demonstrate my medical knowledge except to apply it to my daily life and try to keep myself as healthy as possible. 
-1	When I met a surgeon prior to going in for back surgery, I looked up many questions to ask the surgeon so I would know more about how many surgeries he had performed and how successful he was, as well as how long my recovery would take, and if there was a problem who to call. The surgeon broke everything down beautifully and in terms I could easily understand. I felt extremely comfortable prior to my surgery and confident in his skills.
1	When I correctly thought I had hyperhidrosis, went to the doctor and then he told me that's exactly what it was. One of the few times WebMD didn't make me super anxious and calmed my nerves.
1	I used to be a lifeguard.  I have had to help many children with life saving techniques such as first aid and CPR.  Teaching people how to handle nose bleeds
1	I was diagnosed with Lupus. I already knew what the disease was and what the possible complications were. I did not know about treatment options at the time
1	When I was twenty five I had to make the decision to go through with an experimental surgery for my migraine headaches.  I was told at the time that I could either not survive the surgery or could come out paralyzed.  However, I knew that I required trying this surgery to try to improve my quality of life.  I had spent much time in headache clinics as well as a month inpatient in a special migraine unit in Michigan where they tried to solve my migraines.
1	When trying to get into better shape I knew what foods to eat and how much exercise needed. I knew what heart rate to target while exercising as well.
1	My mother had pain in her lower back. She explained some of the other symptoms, including pain urinating. I told her she may have kidney stones, which was later confirmed by her physician.
1	I was experiencing a ringing in my ears. I scheduled an appointment with an ENT and after extensive hearing testing, the doctor confirmed by believe that I have tinnitus.
1	My then 9-year old son was using the bathroom a lot.  He was running to urinate about every 15 minutes or so.  After observing this for a few days, I asked him if he was also thirsty.  He said he was.  I told my wife that he likely had diabetes and that we needed to get him to the doctor first thing tomorrow (it was a Sunday when I was talking with him).  The doctor checked his blood sugar the next day and found that it was over 700.  We got his diabetes under control and so far, he has continued to live a good life (he is now almost 22).
-1	I have had my gallbladder removed due to gallstones. I have also had a c-section. I have worked in radiology for 15 years.
1	When my husband complained of pain in his abdomen, he wanted to just work through it and tough it out. I insisted he go to the doctor because his pain did not sound normal to me. It was persistent and much more painful than typical digestive problems. He did end up going to the doctor who then had him go to the ER. It turned out he had colitis, and it might have persisted much longer or gotten worse had he not gone.
-1	I had a doctor that attempted to prescribe me the wrong prescription, despite me telling him that I was allergic to that medication.  He didnt hear a word he said.  Had I taken it, I may not be here.
1	The only thing that comes to mind is when I had to write a paper on reproductive health, and I had to present it for a class in my senior year of college as well discuss reproductive health in a workshop I was co-facilitating at an internship site I was working at.
-1	When I went to the doctor early knowing that my water broke even thought they predicted that she would arrive later. I researched the signs to looks for and was correct 
1	I don't really have a knowledge of medical issues except for the ones I have.  I did know that I had a melanoma because I was in australia where there is little ozone and I knew the signs of melanoma.
-1	When I went to my doctor in a different town he told me I had an under active thyroid and that made it harder for me to lose weight.  That gave me the knowledge that of have today to know what affects my efforts at weightloss.
1	I can't say I have ever had an experience that really demonstrated my knowledge of any health or medical issues. I have so far been pretty healthy.
1	my father cut his finger and it was bleeding profusely. In order to clean the wound we utilized rubbing alcohol to disinfect the wound then we took cotton balls to cover the wound and help in the process of clotting. Furthermore, we bandaged the cut on his finger to protect the wound from further injury.  
1	When I was taken to the hospital from my place of work in an ambulance. I ended up in the ER and the ICU and have no memory of it at all. However, when I did become cognizant again, I realized that they were pumping meds into me for high blood pressure and I knew that I'd have to take them for the rest of my life. I also knew that my life had probably been save because I could have had a heart attack or stroke. 
-1	I volunteered in a doctor's office and a hospital for multiple years. I had experience with helping individuals with a variety of heath conditions during this time.
1	I was obese and had chronic back pain. I learned how to count calories and calculate my ideal BMI in order to lose 45 pounds. I also learned how to exercise according to my weight and age in order to stay healthy. 
-1	I had a torn ACL last summer. This was a result of a prior ACL injury that I had in the past. When I got hurt last summer I knew it is going to be my ligament and that I am going to need to have a surgery most likely. I felt the damage in my knee and I know it is going to be very serious. When I went to see a doctor he told me the same thing that this is going to be ligament and/or meniscus. I ended up having both. Bot I got it fixed and now it feels better.
1	I passed my CNA exam in high school which you can do in my state without taking classes. I just took the book and studied so I could charge more as a babysitter. It showed my range of knowledge in basic health and medical issues and how to handle basic situations. This came in handy while babysitting as one small child named Carson ran into an island in the kitchen and split his head open. I knew how to handle it and get him to a doctor. 
1	My father died in 2005 after a long battle with cancer.  I got to know a fair amount about white blood cell counts and anemia and some of the other issues he faced along the way.  I know bits and pieces here and there. 
1	I remember when i was young and i got my first asthma attack and i couldn't breathe. I spent the next 3-4 days in the hospital because of it and i learned a few things about the process.
1	In college I took a medical ethics class where we discussed topics such as euthanasia, vaccines, and the health care system. We had to know what the current laws were and the opinions of leading medical philosophy scholars. 
1	In a college class while performing a lab experiment for physiology, I had to use my knowledge about blood pressure and heart rates to predict what these measurements would be in different conditions.
1	Last summer I worked as a nanny/lifeguard for the home of a private family of two kids. One day one of the kids jumped into the deep end without my knowledge and started to drown, after I was informed he was pulled out of the pool and I started CPR as he was not breathing. 
1	At 5 am I heard the dog barking from my Mom's bedroom. When I got there I saw that she looked ok but things were out of place (dog on floor instead of bed, she was on the opposite side of bed from where she usually was). I talked to her for a minute and she wasn't normal. I thought she had a stroke and called 911. It turned out to be a seizure.
-1	I have anxiety attacks, so I know that I am not eating a healthy diet or doing the right things in order to minimize them. I also know if I have one coming, I can take medication to help rid of it. 
1	My now ex-husband had a genetic heart condition. Because of this, I had to become knowledgeable about cardiac problems. My son was recently diagnosed with his own heart condition, which is slightly different than his father's.This meant I had to not only continue to keep up with what his father has as he may still develop it, but I now had to also learn about this new one.
-1	My brother was having intense pain in his side that was moving around to the front of his body. I brought him to the ER and suspected kidney stones. I was correct that was his diagnosis.
-1	I was anorexic years ago. I asked my doctor if I was not eating because it was the only thing I could control at the time and she said yes.
1	I was told that I might need open heart surgery by a patients first doctor because my heart rate was elevated and had been elevated for a couple of days. I am not overweight, I don't smoke, I swim regularly. I did not accept his opinion and saw another doctor. 6 years later I am still here.
1	We have a wellness screening every year at work. All the numbers that are on the chart are easy to understand. But also before knowing what my numbers were i knew how i can affect each of those numbers, whether it is exercise or healthy eating.
-1	I have always been asked by neighbors of family members to check up on their lab results which is Ok because I am a medical technologist. It really turns weird when they want me to check up on their x-rays, MRI's Cat scans and such.  I am not a doctor you know.
-1	After my mother had hip surgery, I was able to identify that her wound was infected because of previous knowledge that I had. It encouraged her to see her doctor.
1	When I had endometrial cancer, I learned a lot about my body. I learned all I could about it so I could stay well informed during my doctor visits and treatment. 
1	A time that I demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is when I started having an allergic reaction and developed red itchy bumps all over my skin. I did my research online and found out that I had hives, and that Benadryl should help them go away. 
1	My daughter has CF. I spoke at length with her doctor about the benefits of adding a new drug to her daily routine.
1	Frankly, I was not confident to answer the above questions.  I realized that I have no any knowledge about medical issues.  However, I tried to figure out correct answer as hard as possible.    
-1	"I spent a good deal of my childhood being treated for various mood disorders. having these different diagnosis given to me gave me some degree of understanding about how to approach medical information when it is given to me in a medical environment. Otherwise, i have always taken an interest in nutrition and have always read nutrition labels which has helped me understand what is conventionally understood to be ""healthy"" or ""unhealthy"" foods"
1	I guess about a year or two ago I had some chest pains that felt a little weird, but I knew it didn't feel like heart attack symptoms. I did go to the emergency room just in case though since they say that you should.
1	I sometimes track my calories on what I eat if I'm trying to lose weight. I have to read the labels and serving size of foods to make sure I don't eat too many calories. For medical issues, I have to measure out medication into a syringe and had to learn to inject myself intramusculary. 
1	I was taking care of my grandmother who was stage 4 cancer.  Having taken CNA classes I knew how to assist her with using the toilet and change her as well as give her medicine. 
-1	I took an anatomy & physiology class.  It helped me understand the body parts, and systems.  I still remember some of the very odd things in the body, like the golgi apparatus - I remember things I find funny, or very weird.
1	2 years ago I fractured my right hand. When going to the doctor, I was able to diagnose which bone was fractured based on the pain and swelling before having x- rays because of my knowledge of anatomy. I told the doctor, and he was very surprised that I correctly determined which bone was broken after he looked at the x-rays.
-1	I went to the doctors and asked the doctor many questions regarding multiple issues. At the end of my visit he stated that I had a very good understanding of my health and made a few recommendations. Thanks
1	When my mom needed a hysterectomy, often times I had to translate dialogue between her and her English-speaking doctor.  We'd often discuss current medications and past medical history and her general overall health.
-1	Very recently I felt strong heartburn in my esophagus, typically a doctor would recommend some anti-acids, but, given that I've taken some courses in college and know certain things about the human body, anti-acids were to make my condition worse because 90% of heartburn is caused by too little acid. Based on that knowledge I managed to end my heartburn situation by simply decreasing the ph of my stomach. 
-1	When my grandparent was in the hospital I was really the one responding for explaining to the rest of the family what was going on with is health. Therefore I demonstrated knowledge in doing so
1	i have done a lot of the word/math problems like this before in other situations (both surveys and real life) and i usually am very good with things of this nature
1	My children have been ill on numerous occassions with upset stomachs.  I know from past experience that they need to stay hydrated and also eat foods that are easy on the stomach.  Being able to know to give them a BRAT diet has saved trips to the doctor.
-1	In college I took a health and wellness class as an elective. We studied the human body, environmental risk factors that effect human health and all kinds of sicknesses.
-1	Went to a doctor. Told me I had some heart issues and needed to exercise more. Immediately I started walking and jogging on my breaks at work. 
-1	I know a lot about hypothyroidism because I was diagnosed with it when I was born. I was born without a thyroid so I have to take medication my whole life for it. I am very knowledgeable about it and get blood tests regularly. I explained this to a new doctor I was seeing, so I demonstrated my knowledge of my condition.
1	When my grandpa was in the ER for his gout and fever, the doctor prescribed him a new medication to treat his gout. When we were given the discharge papers, I reviewed everything and reviewed the medications side effects. It had stated that the medication should not be used if another medication is currently being taken. I asked a nurse about that and she wasn't sure about it so she talked to the doctor. The doctor had to review all the medications again and ended up saying it was okay to take both medications at the same time after a thorough review. 
1	I usually obtain copies of blood work, etc. from y doctors.  I realized that there was a vitamin D deficiency.  This went unnoticed for several appointments.  When one doctor recognized the deficiency and called me, I knew I could u as t him.
1	My 1 year old burned his hands on a curling iron and we had to go to mutliple emergency rooms and hospital.  One doctor told me we needed to do immediate surgery.  The burns were bad but not that bad.  I have some knowledge of burns and new the heal naturally very well.  I asked for a second opinion and did not do surgery.  Every thing worked out great.
1	I scraped my knee. I washed it gently, to prevent infection. I found a clean old rag  to use as a bandage. I wrapped it around my knee and secured it with tape. Not too impressive, I know.
1	I work in healthcare as a patient care tech so i demonstrate my knowledge to my patients day in and day out. I also took an EMT course through the state i reside in so i use the information i learned there at work each day as well. Lastly, I tend to be the friend that everyone goes to with their medical questions despite my lack of statistical knowledge presented in the past few questions. 
1	Most of the time I had to explain what the diagnostics were to my parents and now I do it  with my wife
1	When my ex attempted suicide due to a benzodiazpene overdose, I took appropriate measures such as making sure she stayed awake after I found her to reduce risk of brain damage. A negative result of knowing about that class of drug is knowing that memory damage is likely due to damagine GABA receptors, which have a critical role.
1	I have PCOS.  I have done research on it and been to various doctors.  At one point, my doctor put me on the drug metformin.  He did initial blood work but did not follow up.  After doing more research, I learned that he needed to do follow up blood work to check my levels.  He was not doing follow up blood work.  I took myself off of the drug and never went back. PCOS involves a lot of trial and error. I feel like the patient needs to be their own advocate. 
1	I have taken classes for medical billing and coding. I also have an aunt that is a nurse and I learn a few things from her. I received my degree in medical billing and coding, but I have never used my degree through employment.
1	I have advanced education in training in the medical field. I have a Bachelors of Science degree in Biological sciences. After obtaining my undergraduate degree, I went to graduate school and received my doctorate in immunology.
1	I can absorb knowledge and information better than most. I have no problems figuring out what I should do when a problem or condition. Usually I have been told before, and I remember it. I always see a doctor for most problems. When get a new prescription, I always ask the pharmacist about the new drug.
1	I know that when I take a UTI test strip test, if it shows signs of leukacytes or nitrates that there is a good chance that I have an infection.
1	One time when I was younger I was around a friend that experienced severe burns to their foot.  They instantly wanted to run to put their foot under cold water to cool it off but I told them that doing so could result in a lot more pain than they currently were in and also tissue damage to the foot.
1	About 20 years ago my daughter called me one morning as my 10 year od grandson was getting on the bus and she happened to mentioned he had been getting up in the night to go to the bathroom. In the next sentence she said and he is so thirsty the last coupe days all he wants to do is drink water. He had already taken the bus so I told her it was urgent for them to get him when he got to school and take him right to his Dr. I said sounds like diabetes. They took him in and his numbers were so high they admitted him to the hospital for a few days. He is a type 1 diabetic.
-1	well i know that some of thesee i did not know but with myself i know because my dr tells me and i can read my paper 
1	My friend had a gallbladder attack and her doctor told her that she could avoid surgery if she ate healthy. She started talking about the things that she ats and I noticed that her diet was not the kind of diet she should have if she is trying to avoid gallbladder attacks. She still ate things like fried chicken or pizza which are foods rich in fat, fat triggers gallbladder attacks and I told her that this kind of food would most certainly lead to a gallbladder attack if she does not cut back or completely eliminate them from her diet. 
1	Sometimes I have a hard time breathing due to asthma but I can't tell if it's asthma or my throat is dry. I know that a sign of asthma is wheezing, so I breathe hard to see if I'm wheezing. If I am, then I use my inhaler.
-1	I dont have any health issues so I dont know how to answer this question... so dont know how to explain 
1	I had gestational diabetes with my last pregnancy.  I was required to eat a healthy diet with limited amounts of carbohydrates. I also had to prick my finger 3 times a day and monitor my blood sugar to see if i would need to be placed on medication.  I was also required to walk for 20-30 per day.  Therefore, I learned how to test my blood sugar, count my calories and carbohydrates and make sure i was exercising.  It was required for my health and my unborn baby's health.
1	I sometimes deal with IBS and have researched a bunch of information on it for possible remedies. When my sister started dealing with some stomach issues I was able to help her with some diet tips to get it back under control. She was on a fairly unhealthy diet due to being in college and limited food options, so we figured out a plan that would work for her.
1	I had to help my mom with her insulin.  She needed 1 unit for every 20 points her blood sugar was over the reccommended level and i was responsible for figuring out exactly how much insulin to give.
-1	I had to go to the hospitial at 20 for them to remove a tumor on my left testicle. I did a lot of research then to find out the whole process of it all. Thats about it 
1	There was a time when I was hiking with a friend and she cut herself deeply with a knife while we were away from help. I was able to use a butterfly bandage to hold the wound shut because of what I knew about the nature of the cut.
1	While asleep on the sofa on a weekday afternoon, I was awakened suddenly by a sharp pain in my upper chest.  After a brief moment, I realized that this was a pain that I had never experienced before.  It was definitely something important and possibly very serious.  A minute or two later I was on the phone with paramedics and soon on the way to the hospital.  Three cardiac stents later, I am glad that I was able to recognize the location and unusual character of the pain and seek immediate help.
1	I broke my arm in 4 places and had to go to the Doctor who almost had to do surgery on it. Instead though, she put it in a cast and within 8 weeks it had healed. But those were the longest 8 weeks of my life.
1	I was admitted to hospital having premature labor with my second child. A nurse attempted to start a pitocin drip with no doctor present. I told her pitocin was unnecessary since I was already having contractions. I told her to confer with doctor. Turns out I was right.
1	We were hiking in the backwoods and my friend slipped and cut her hand.  She needed stitches and we were to far out to get help in  time.  I used my sewing kit to sew up her wound.
1	I used to be a lifeguard and was responsible for first aid and basic care in the event of any of the swimmers getting injured. This showed that I knew basic medical information.
-1	When I applied for SSD I was able to essentially tell them what was wrong with me in the forms I needed to fill out. This helped them make a determination regarding my eligibility for disability. 
1	When I first made my initial visit to my doctor I came prepared with several questions. I was pleased that she did not just talk about what medicines I may have to take but asked about my diet and exercise routine. She was rather pleased that I already had an established exercise program and watched the intake of sodium in my diet and encouraged me to continue on the path I was on.
-1	I am not sure I have had an experience that gave me any knowledge of health or medical issues.  Except I have a friend with diabetes and have known folks with cancer and have died.
1	A woman I know was having chest pains, she wanted to call an ambulance or drive herself to an emergency room, but I told her that the cost of the ambulance ride might not be covered by her insurance, and her insurance might not cover the cost of her emergency room visit if it turned out that she did not actually need emergency care. After some discussion she decided to take a Lyft to an urgent care facility. I haven't been able to find out what happened to her after that. 
1	There have been a number of times. One time was when our son had an allergic reaction to pecans. He started breaking out in a rash so we gave him benadryl, called the nurse, and kept an eye on him to make sure his airway didn't become involved.
1	I majored in psychology and took many science classes. When I hear about anti-depressant medications, I know the differences between SSRIs and other types and generally understand the mechanism by which they work on the brain. 
1	I have a chronic illness and have had multiple complications from that. I have a positive ANA, I've had a stroke yet I've had no heart or vascular disease, I have chronic fatigue, I've had extremely elevated liver enzymes where they go up and down. The one thing they do know I have is Hashimoto's auto immune thyroid and even though it hasn't been confirmed yet, I believe my stroke was caused by my Hashi's because it causes me to have afib sometimes. I know that if I have one Auto immune disease I could have others. I know that if my thyroid hormones are not at the right level they can cause all kinds of problems with metabolic processing that could include problems with my liver or my immune system may decide to attack my liver. I have figured out on my own that my body does not convert T4 to T3 and being on a medication that has both is optimal for me. And I've learned that sometimes blood work does not tell the whole story, that more than anything you have to listen to your symptoms and use those as a guide along with blood work.
-1	Not that there was a lot but the times I did have to have hospital visits for myself and my family members. A few times it was very serious but mostly routine checkups.  And general knowledge I have learned over time.
1	Just going to the doctor and listening to my doctor and reading stuff online from credible sources. My own health problems and how to make it easier through food/exercise and my mother.
1	I had to make level of resuscitation decisions for my father last week. I consulted with him, my brothers and sisters and the medical professionals to decide on a middle level resuscitation order.
1	I was having a lot of issues with constant low grade headaches for several months. I saw several doctors and did a plethora of online research to try to find out what was going on.
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated this was when I was diagnosed with breast cancer.  I learned more about health and medical issues than I ever wanted to.
-1	After finding out I had anemia, I started to drink carrot juice. My doctor was delighted to see my hemoglobin during my next visit.
1	A few weeks ago my roommate had a fever and felt ill. He thought that the fever was the issue and he would be okay if his body temperature was lowered. I explained how fevers occur to help your immune system fight off illnesses, and lowering the fever would only make it harder for his body to deal with the real issue. 
1	Well I suppose one of the best experiences of my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health and medical issues is the classes I took in college.  Between studying anatomy and physiology, doing labs on the same subject, and taking tests on everything, the fact that I passed I suppose proves my knowledge of the subject matter.  I also did a study-abroad trip in college with a group of nursing students in Cameroon doing health screenings.
1	"My dad was having ""bad indigestion"" one day and he told me the symptoms he had had the night before.  I told him in sounded a little like a heart attack.  He was checked out and it was not a heart attack, but it did have similar symptoms."
1	Someone in my extended family was diagnosed with a terminal illness that required aggressive treatment and eventually end-of-life care, and even though I have no medical training I read a lot about many topics, including medicine, and some of what I'd learned helped me take care of my family member and speak on their behalf with doctors.
1	I was a division 1 track and field athlete and over the years after many muscle strains and pulls, I have been able to properly identify the difference between the two when I get injured.  I usually am able to self-rehab on my own from learned experiences.
1	My neighbor came over to visit and as she was leaving she lost her balance a little, I noticed that her speech was starting to slur and face seemed a little slack on one side. It was apparent to me that she may be having a stroke, I called an ambulance and they were able to get her to a doctor quickly to minimize the effects.
1	I've had asthma and allergies my entire life and can explain what is happening with my symptoms accurately to doctors in order for them to best diagnose and solve the issue. I also know which of the over the counter medicines tend to solve which issues quickest and most effectively.
1	An experience in my life where I demonstrated my knowledge of health or  medical issues is when I had jaw surgery. I have been going to the orthodontist since I was two years old. I knew a lot about my mouth and what was going on. Whenever I went to have the actual surgery, I went to a different hospital with different doctors. They were explaining to me everything that was going to happen but since I have been going to the orthodontist for years I already knew everything that was going to happen and could talk to the surgeons like I knew what I was talking about.
1	I have no single experience. I just understand what my doctor is telling me because I understand the human body to some degree because of courses I've taken in school and my own reading.
-1	I can recall a time a couple of years ago where i started getting this really sore thorat.  It started slow as first and within a couple of days it would not let up.  Ive had strep before and figured that is what it was turning into. i got a flashlight and looked in the back of my throat and sure enough there were little white puss pockets started to form in my throat.  At that point i went straight to the doctor where they ran a strep test and it came back positive for strep.  I was giving antibiotics and it cleared withing a few days, but i finished all of the medicine even though i felt better as it took what was prescribed to me until it was finished. 
1	As I have PCOD problem i am aware of the symptoms and cares to be taken of the health to reduce the problem and in my home my dad have this acromigaly problem by which i am aware of the symptopms of that problem and there is no treatment for this problem and similarly i have knowledge on BP and blood sugar
-1	none because I have not needed to go to the doctor for any serious issue so I am still healthy and do not need to see to my health for now.       
1	after my father was diagnosed with two conditions, i was worried about my risk for developing one or both. so i went to my doctor knowing the symptoms i'd seen show up with my dad's conditions.
1	I had to get my gallbladder taken out. Before the doctors realized it, I had mentioned I thought it was gallbladder, and the instacare doctor dismissed it and said I wouldn't be having pain in the middle of my upper stomach area, but I had researched and talked to others that this is true, that you can feel the pain in the middle. Needless to say, another attack landed me in the ER and they did an ultrasound and diagnosed me with gall-sludge. They scheduled to take my gallbladder out and did. Pain went away.
1	I have been taking care of my grandma who has several health problems full time for the last several years. She has diabetes, heart disease, arthritis, and cancer. I help her with understanding her medical information as well as help her with her medication. 
1	At one point in my life I was considered obese. The weight gain had happened quickly and with no apparent change to my lifestyle in terms of exercise or diet. I went to the doctor because I assumed it could be a hyperthyroid issue. 
1	"I was able to quit smoking cold turkey when I had a child. Regardless of the ""benefits"" it may have brought to me for quitting, the fact that my child won't have to grow up breathing in second hand smoke because of me is good."
1	I took a class for EMT basic training and passed with flying colors. Some of the things I learned were how first responders react (secure the scene, ABC - airway, breathing, circulation). Also learned to how to give oxygen, check blood glucose, among other things.
-1	A lot of it was math, as I work with math a lot. For myself going through a high risk pregnancy I had to be careful of my diet and exercise. Also my mental health and what kind of anti depressants I have to take and the side effects.
1	I graduated from Oregon State University with a Bachelor's degree in General Science - focusing on pharmacology. I have taken 1 year of health classes, 1 year of chemistry, 1 year of organic chemistry, 1 year of human anatomy and physiology, and one term on animal physiology. 
-1	When taking my daughter to the hospital because she was sick. I was pretty sure she had the flu, and I turned out to be right. 
1	In high school one of my friends said he felt bad. He got up to walk down the hall and passed out. He was sweating and in a sort of daze. Knowing that he had diabetes I grabbed a piece of candy out of my purse and shoved it in his mouth. This perked him up enough to help him get to the nurses station and get his sugar levels sorted out. It had dropped insanely low. 
1	In my undergraduate years at college i did a presentation over a chronic illness that my mother had that lasted for 15 minutes describing the effects of the disease as well as what caused it and how it was treated
1	I have been diagnosed with IBS.   I participated with my doctors for over a year narrowing down the possibilities for my symptoms finally to that of IBS.  The diagnoses came after multiple tests and appointments requiring me to listen to the doctors and interpret the results of testing with them.
1	I delivered a sternum rub to an incapacitated passed out friend after they'd had far too much alcohol to consume in order to wake them up and make sure the were ok.
1	My husband has a very complicated medical situation that involves PTSD, TBI and other ailments from a car accident. I have had to help him interpret medical information, and doctors notes.
1	Two of my sons are on the autism spectrum. I have had to learn a lot through the years on how to raise them and help them the best way I can. I have a lot of family and friends who refer people they know to me when they first find out that their son or daughter is also diagnosed. It is one area I feel highly knowledgeable in without ever having gone to school for it. I once was at the pediatrician and the doctor asked if I would be okay going to the next room over to talk to a mom who had just found out about her son. They thought it might be helpful for me to come in as an experienced mom in this matter. I really enjoyed it and the mom seemed to leave feeling at least somewhat better about the future.
1	When I was hiking one time, I fell and injured my leg. I knew what I needed to do to be able to perform first aid and get myself back to my home.
1	I had a brain tumor.  I had to learn how to take my medication, about surgery, recovery, rehab, physical therapy, etc.
-1	I have been working in the medical field for over 12 years. Also,  I have taken college courses which describes medical issues in detail. The issues given were more the line of using your maths skills to complete.
-1	at times when my brother was small and had a fever I knew what to do for example to put fresh water on his forehead see if his throat hurts to check whether or not infection take the temperature.
-1	MY DAUGHTER WAS NOT EATING, STOMACH PAIN, AND NOT HERSELF.  I MADE HER GO TO THE DOCTOR AND SHE WAS DIAGNOSED WITH AN ULCER.
1	I had the flu and was feeling very bad. .I went to the drug store and got the medicine and treated myself The flu cleared up 
1	I experienced symptoms of a sickness, fever for a few days, etc.  I remained sick for an extended period of time which caused me to think something was wrong.  I went to a doctor and it was determined that I had walking pneumonia.  I feel relieved to have gone early to prevent anything worse from happening.
1	Going through a complicated pregnancy, I had to do a lot of research as to what was causing my symptoms and if they were normal/treatable. I had to have a lot of conversations with my doctor to find the right balance.
1	When I went in after my first kidney stone attack, I was presented with a list of information about various liquids my body could take in. I thought coffee and soda were dangerous because of their high caffeine intake and they said in great amounts, that's true, but what is most important is water intake. So as long as I am balancing with enough water, it will cause me no problems.
-1	I recently have been doing research on the benefits of the ketogenic diet. I talked/discussed the diet with my Aunt, who was inquiring how I was doing, knowing that recently I had started this diet. I was able to tell her about how I needed to increase my water intake because my fat cells were no longer holding onto the water your body needs to thrive properly. I also told her the benefits of cutting out carbs decreased inflammation in your body, which is pertinent information because my family suffers from psoriasis, a immune disease that shows itself in the inflammation of spots on your skin. 
1	One event in my life where I was able to understand a medical condition and its warning signs is when I developed a pneumonia, and although my mother refused to take me to the doctors, I took a cab to my local urgent care and setup and appointment to help cure myself. Luckily my mother listened to the doctor there and I was prescribed antibiotics so I could get better. From then on Ive chosen to help myself when it comes to a serious condition
1	I have a friend who often comes to me stating that she is sick or unwell, but usually I ask her a series of questions starting with if she has had any water that day. Usually the answer is no, and she feels better after she drinks some water. My next question would be whether she has eaten, how she slept, and if she has allergies depending on the symptoms.
1	When my depression and anxiety were getting worse. I was knowledgeable about current medications and treatments (by personal research) and was able to use that information to better communicate with my doctor and set up a plan I was familiar and comfortable with. 
1	I generally have knowledge of the common cold, flu, stomach pain, etc., so I've been able to guide my healing habits as well as give advice to others.
-1	My eyes were feeling really dry, itchy and irritated.  Before I went to the eye doctor, I checked my symptoms online and thought I might have dry eye and blepharitis.  When I went to my eye appt., I was diagnosed with dry eye and blepharitis.  So I guess I am able to figure out what my symptoms mean and be right about it. 
-1	Last december, I was having some really bad pain in my bladder. It was difficult to urinate, and I constantly had a burning feeling. And an urge to constantly go to the bathroom, even though I didn't need to. I remembered these issues from a previous time that I had a UTI. I called in to my doctor and gave him my symptoms. They were able to review my chart and see that I had a UTI a year prior and instead of having to go in for another visit, they sent in an RX for the UTI. (although it is pretty easy to diagnose a UTI haha). 
1	When I was still in high school I originally thought I had a sore throat. After a few days of taking over the counter cough medicine I felt that it was something more than just a sore throat because it was getting harder to swallow. I went to the doctor to have it checked on and found out that the nodes in my neck were infected and filling with puss and if it had gone untreated they would have caused serious issues that could lead to death.
1	I have some previous experience working in a health-related field. I also have Bipolar Disorder, Generalized Anxiety Disorder, high cholesterol, high blood pressure, Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome, and generally have seen quite a few doctors many times.
1	I woke up one day to brush my teeth as my daily routine.  I noticed that my tongue had a white coating no matter how much I brushed.  Trying to scrape off my tongue led me to bleed a bit.  After some internet research, I was sure I had oral thrush.  When I went to my doctor, I specifically asked her if I had oral thrush and she informed me that I did.  I was quite pleased with myself that I knew exactly what I had.
-1	It just seems like a lot of magh I guess Im not sure But it just seems like you have to have a good melt knowledge of math and your fun
-1	when i had a enlarged cyst in my neck and i had to go to the hospital to have it drained and biopsied.
1	I have had high blood pressure for many years.  I can take my own blood pressure and understand where I am at regarding the blood pressure.  I know that as long as it stays high, I have a much higher chance of a heart attack or a stroke.
1	My husband had become very mean to me.   This is really unlike him.  So I brought him to the doctor, who said everything was fine.   His behavior continued, so I brought him to the ER and insisted he be checked over.  After blood and urine was drawn, come to find out he was septic. 
1	When I was in the hospital I was able to completely understand what was going on, what the readings on the machines meant, what the doctors and nurses were talking about and how the medications would help. 
1	I recently found out I have Type 2 Diabetes. With my medical knowledge and research ability I have been able to keep my blood sugar within normal limits without the use of medication.
-1	One of my coworkers had an important meeting later in the day and was anxious about it. Around lunch time she started to say her chest was tightening and that she was having a heart attack. She was shaking, sweating, and breathing quickly. I told her to focus on taking slower, deeper breaths and that it wasn't a heart attack it was a panic attack. After about a minute she was in a calmer state, her chest wasn't as tight, and she was breathing slower.
-1	I have had fertility issues because of increased NK cells, more than 5 years and visited 4 doctors, nobody of them told me how to reduce the level of the cells which block the possibility for implantation. Then I found a holistic doctor doctor who recommended change in the food diet and test for food intolerance, my ob-gyn doctor started laughing at this and said this is silly. But I did everything my holistic doctor told to me, I even started core gymnanstics and acupuncture and 7 months later I was pregnant with my first child, so I read tons of books, blogs, articled, I tried a lot of things and succeed.
1	 When my daughter was 9 months old she had a serious infection. I repeatedly brought her to the pediatrician and emergency room before it was finally diagnosed. Only after a doctor was convinced that her white blood count needed to be checked was the infection clear to the medical professionals. I needed to be insistent. I also needed to be able to accurately administer her pain meds and antibiotics once we were discharged from the hospital.. 
-1	This event happened in 2007 when I was officially diagnosed with PCOS. I knew I had it just by the systems I was experiencing. I conduct all of my research online and throughly read through any material and sources I could place my hands on. When I finally saw my provider she diagnosed me PCOS which I knew.
1	My close friend fell ill, and I was with him. I helped him navigate his serious illness by doing research while he was mostly incapacitated.
1	I had been told by an Orthopedic surgeon that I had three bulging discs.  I tried taking Cortisone injections in my back.  They did not work to relieve the pain.  The next form of action to take would be surgery.  I question other health officials about the results of these surgeries.  I was told that I most likely will have to go back in later and have additional surgeries. I had read about Chiropractors and what they were able to do for people with back pain.  My general practitioner is an O.D..  He said that I did my homework and should follow through with my decision to seek a Chiropractor.  I have been pain free since seeing one.  
1	During a pregnancy I was diagnosed with gestational diabetes. Due to my knowledge of food label reading and general healthy eating I was able to regulate my blood sugar with a healthy diet throughout my pregnancy.
-1	A time in my life that I knew more in terms of health or medical issues was when I was talking to a friend about anxiety and how they were having attacks and what they should do and avoid in terms of alcohol and food that would help decrease their chances of experiencing anxiety attacks. 
-1	I once went for a yearly physical and a couple of days later I was told one of my test came back abnormal and I was so scared. I waa scheduled for another check my another doctor and come to find out it was normal. I knew an abnormal test means something in my body was not working correctly and according to websites where I received a lot of medical knowledge on my scare issue 
1	Im not great at health things. I just have a liking for math and if a medical issue equates to a math problem, I can usually figure it out. Percentages and chances are math equations. 
1	I was found to have a curve in the spine so I had to go and get more test done and pictures were taken to determine the severity of the curve and whether or not I would need a brace or surgery. Recently, I found out that there is 50% chance that I have mutation in my genes that makes me more likely to get certain types of cancers
1	My mother went through a lot of health issues when I was younger. This led to doctors visits and specialist appointments for a lot of my life. She has still not been officially diagnosed with anything. This has helped me understand health and medical knowledge a bit better. 
-1	i normally research any potential side effect or condition on the internet to understand and ask the right questions before I go to the Doctor but I don't have a great deal of knowledge in one particular area. 
1	I worked with an elderly gentleman providing in home care. I noticed his labored breathing, blue lips and gray skin one morning and informed his daughter that he really needed to visit the emergency room. She disagreed. an hour later he had a heart attack and passed away in my arms. 
-1	I know my best because I read that carefully and I'm a person that like to have knowledge. I put all my effort in this survey to try to help myself learn more and to help you guys.
-1	If I understand the question correctly when I suffered the emergency.  I don't know if it qualifys knowledge of medical issues but I experienced like I said earlier chest pain and couldn't breath.  I ignored the symptoms because it was just a little chest pain at first but the following days breathing became difficult.  When I guess I reached my tolerance point I guess I dialed 911.  
1	"I don't think there is one great experience that demonstrated my personal knowledge of health issues.  I guess one experience would be that I regularly get a blood screening on an annual basis to stay in the know about anything that may be wrong health wise and it always comes back with flying colors - all blood screening ""things"" in the green."
1	My daughter has had her tonsils and adenoids taken out after having strep throat repeatedly for months.  She also has asthma and was in the hospital for RSV as a baby.  I also have a son that has had multiple ear infections and tubes in his ears.
1	I had a mastectomy becuase of breast cancer. I don't know if it demonstrated my knowledge, but it did improve it.  I had to look up so many test results and what they meant, not to mention aftercare from the surgery.
1	I had thyroid cancer and became very aware of radio active iodine and the fact your thyroid is the only organ that sucks up iodine and TSH is some thing that everyone who has a thyroid removed needs to replace and what T3 and T4 was. I started a thyroid support group so I could support others going through this scary experience 
-1	A lot of my knowledge has come from doctor visits, television commercials, articles in magazines, asking questions to people, and general curiosity.
1	I talk on a daily basis with my friend, who is a nephrologist. he tells me stories (good and bad) about his profession, his practice and his career. This has helped my general knowledge of medicine considerably and he even occasionally asks for my general opinion / validation.
-1	Last year couldn't breath so they rush me to the hospital.It was just anxiety an stress the doctor said.I need to get more rest 
1	When my daughter injured her leg.  She dislocated her knee and we had to understand the different ligaments that were surrounding the knee.  I knew what they were.
1	When I was in the hospital for an injury to my leg.  I had a wound vac attached to my leg, and I had to change the dressings that were inside my leg by myself.  Then when I went home a week later, I had to change the internal dressings as well, but with no vac.
1	I had blood tests done and found out that I had hypothyroidism, but when I went to an endocrinologist about it she dismissed my symptoms and concerns. I had to advocate on my own behalf and tell her why all of my symptoms match with hypothyroidism
-1	Throughout my life I have encountered many illnesses and medical issues that I have successfully combated. Over time I have become more knowledgeable regarding medical procedures and how to fill out paperwork pertaining to medical visits. 
1	I am not sure that I have ever had the experience that you are looking for.  Any knowledge that I have of medical issues comes from after talking to either my doctor, or doing research.  I do not think that I have ever simply had knowledge of a medical issue.
1	My SO has had to get significant dental work done in the last year so I've had to brush up on those procedures and become very knowledgeable in a very short time.
1	My daughter needed to have a procedure done. I was already knowledgeable about this from past experience. I was able to explain everything to her in detail. I was able to answer any of her questions or concerns.
-1	I dont really have to much knowledge. just common scense and basic knowledge if things happen. I can tell if i really need to see a doctor or not.
1	I used to have someone that worked for me and had seizures quite often. Knowing to turn him on his side, and help hold his head, helped him several times.
-1	I always tell people the difference in storebrands and the name brands (just fillers), and I also generally inform people not to take tylenol while drinking unless they want liver failure.
1	I became sick once and was in the hospital for a week.  I was on a lot of IV medicines and learned a lot about medications that I had never taken before.
1	demonstrated knowledge of medical issues would tend to come from conversations with medical professionals and their either agreement with what i think I know, or the redirection to the correct information.
1	When I had gestational diabetes, I educated myself on diet, supplements, and how and when to exercise to maximize the effect on my blood glucose levels.  I frequently checked my blood glucose levels to maintain proper readings.  I understood how my A1C was effected by the issue.  I also educated myself on dangers to the fetus.  I was able to maintain healthy glucose levels and stay off of insulin during the pregnancy.  
1	I honestly don't think there's any specific moment in my life where I have demonstrated a knowledge of health or medical issues that would be noteworthy. While I think I have a decent understanding of how to keep myself healthy and the choices I need to make on eating and exercise, beyond that nothing special.
-1	I had to use my knowledge on medical issues when I worked at a doctor's office. I worked there for a year and a half.
1	My father is a dentist and my mother is an RN.  I was taught to read labels, ask questions and get concrete evidence when evaluating medical decisions.
1	The other day when I was babysitting, I had a feeling that something was wrong with the little boy I was watching. He was feeling very sick and his mom believed it was just a cold. His cough was very bad, mucus cough, a very runny nose, a temperature in the hundreds and no appetite. His temperature started spiking so we took him to the doctor. Sure enough, he had the flu and was required to start taking antibiotics immediately.
1	I've had depression for a good portion of my life. Since there is constant research in this area i keep with with the new medications and read about how they could help me and then i consult with my doctor on if any may reduce the potential from side affects from what i currently take and do a better job then my current medications regeime 
1	My son was in the hospital for a month after he was born.  During that time we got very familiar with the monitors and terminology that the doctors and nurses were using everyday.  
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my blood pressure went up, my face and limbs were very swollen, and I was pregnant with my 3rd child. When I called the midwife, I requested to be transferred to the hospital because I thought I had preeclampsia. Upon testing, the staff found that I did in fact have preeclampsia.
1	Someone was saying they were guaranteed not to get the flu since they'd had the flu vaccine. I had to explain that having the flu vaccine could reduce the probably of getting the flu significantly, but they could not say they were never going to get the flu. It would be less likely, but could still happen.
1	My husband is a disabled veteran, and his neurologist is a foreign medical graduate who can barely speak English. I have to point out mistakes he made in reporting my husband's responses just about every time he sees this doctor.
1	There was a situation when I developed some issues with my neck and things became misaligned.  I went to different specialists to improve this area.  I finished a course of treatment with doctors from three different fields, and learned to manage the condition.
-1	Taking ibuprofen for teeth ache pain. Over the counter medicines make it easy to calm immediate health problems until I can go see a doctor for a diagnosis.
1	I don't know that such an experience exists as I have very little knowledge of health or medical issues, I only know when I feel something is wrong with my body. An example would be that once I had sudden onset shortness of breath and I knew that was abnormal so instead of waiting to go the doctor, I went immediately and was diagnosed with a massive pulmonary embolism. 
-1	I was at home, alone, eating soup when I tried to swallow a lentil, but it got caught in my throat. I realized that I was not able to get it to go down and I could  feel it in my throat. I drove to the local fire station and the firefighters took me to the local hospital. After several hours, and a few tests, the attending doctor said there was nothing there. I was admitted, however, and the specialist for stomach problems listened to my story, and did a balloon endoscopy in the late evening. Sure enough, he found the lentil. 
1	I walked into my brother in laws home and took his blood pressure, as he said he wasn't feeling good.  His blood pressure was 190/110.  I immediately called for an ambulance.
1	I have learned a bit of medical knowledge through the internet and real life experiences. Other than that, I have no actual medical training.
-1	When I got Bell's Palsy, my wife was convinced that I had suffered a stroke.  However, I felt fine other than the left side of my face not working.  I kept telling her adamantly that I didn't suffer a stroke because I didn't have any other symptoms.
1	When a relative was ill (terminally ill, as it turned out) I attended doctors appointments with the (surviving) spouse and help to explain what had been said, what options were presented, and what the likely outcome would be in each option.
1	I am the caregiver for my elderly mother. She recently had lab results that showed a low sodium level. Her primary care doctor decreased her water pill to every other day. Then my mother went to her cardiologist and after an echocardiogram, he told my mother to take the water pill every other day.  Even though her doctors are in the same group, the cardiologist had not looked at her recent lab reports and her primary care physician's recommendations.  I called her PCP's office and spoke to her nurse and explained the situation.  I requested her PCP call the cardiologist and consult about her lab reports.  She did call him and together they came up with a solution to the problem.
1	I figured out what to do when I got hit in the eye with a baseball. Ice was put on it, along with a tight bandage to stop the bleeding.  Then, heading to the hospital to be sure.
1	My sister-in-law said there was like green stuff when she sat down on the toilet (she was 9 months pregnant). I told her that could mean the baby was in distress and she should get to the hospital.
1	my partner has Graves disease and was exhibiting symptoms of thyroid storm, a rare but fatal condition. I spoke with 4 different doctors over the phone in the ER who all said it was so unlikely she was probably fine. I took her to the hospital anyway and good thing because she had thyroid storm after all and almost died. 
1	I have actively participated in medical conferences and do biomedical research as a career. I have written a grant proposal on the role of pharmacogenomics in treatment for preterm birth and regularly read medical journals. 
1	My toddler son got sick over the holidays this year. It was a scary ordeal and we called the physician when his fever hit 104. I knew to call if his fever hit this high because of my limited medical experience. We were able to follow the doctor's instructions on our next treatment steps and have him diagnosed. I was able to keep calm and handle this situation because of the knowledge I possess.
1	My mother has several health issues (along with being a bit of a hypochondriac) and I have been to several doctor appointments with her to manage her paperwork and explain things she doesn't understand. 
1	I have had four children.  I feel like I am a specialist in pregnancy.  I am also an elementary teacher, so I also feel like I am a nurse most days.
1	"When I'm doing clinical and correctly diagnose one of our case studies. Also, when I can correctly prescribe the right medicine for the ""patient""."
-1	I had frequent visits to my doctor throughout the years, and she is very patient and is willing to give information out in hopes to helping others. I have learned a ton from her just from visiting her when I'm not feeling well or if there is something wrong with me. 
1	I was a boy scout, and played football through college.  I have seen lots of cuts, broken fingers, dislocations and I have been under the knife for knee and ankle surgery.   I have general knowledge of medical issues. 
1	A few years ago I determined that I was feeling really lousy and that the reason was that I had gotten overweight and didn't exercise enough. I wound up losing 30 pound in 2 months and felt great. Not only did I do the physical work required but I studied a lot about diet and timing of exercise to maximize the benefit.
1	Knowing that if I had a basic gold antibiotics  would do nothing for me since colds are a virus not a bacteria .
1	I have low iron. I've been able to raise my levels by changing my diet and limiting items that cause issues with iron.
-1	I really don't know what to write because I don't really have very much knowledge of heath or medical issues.  I guess I try to eat healthy.  There was one time where I had to take care of a wound that my husband had.  The nurse on base showed me how to change his dressings and I did until he was all healed up.  That is really the only thing I can think off.  When I go to the grocery store I pay attention to nutrition labels and try to avoid foods with added sugar, too much salt, and loads of carbs.  Fat is ok because we are doing the keto diet right now.
-1	Someone I knew, had a stroke and didn't realize that is what was going on. I looked up all the symptoms and realized that the person that was suffering from were very valid. I was able to help someone from having any more damage to their body. 
-1	I went to the doctor for a urinary tract infection. I usually try to fight it off on my own with fluids like cranberry juice. When I wait it turns into a kidney infection. This last time I didn't wait. So I was able to say with confidence to the Dr that it was just a UTI instead of a kidney infection.
1	I have had to help both my parents through major health issues.  I also have three of my own children who have had a variety of childhood illnesses and injuries. These experiences have helped me to feel more confident in my knowlege of health and medical issues.  
1	When my grandmother was diagnosed with a glioblastoma, I was always present at medical visits to translate what the doctors would say about required medications, side effects, test results, etc. to my family members and to take care of her.
1	My dad was diagnosed with lung cancer and I was the one to take him to his appointments and procedures . He was in his 80 so I was the one to ask questions, take notes and help decide on treatment.  
-1	I was able to help my sister understand her RH- status while pregnant and what it meant for her baby. I was RH- with my first child, and I had read up a lot on it. I actually have a very rare blood type that switches from O- to O+. 
1	My daughter was born with gastroschisis.  I did a lot of research on it, so by the time she was born I was well aware of what to look out for, what to ask the doctors, and what things to be worried about. She was in the hospital for over a month, and during the time the staff was constantly making comments about how well versed I was in my daughter's condition. It made me feel more comfortable going home with her when she was discharged knowing that I had learned so much about her condition and was comfortable knowing when something didn't seem right or if it was something that was normal for babies with this condition. 
1	I need to decide when to take my husband to the hospital when he had appendicitis.  I forced him to go when I felt his stomach and it was swollen in the same spot they always show when describing appendicitis. 
1	I went to get a blood screening and the doctor talked me through what needed to be done, however I already knew most of the procedure and what would be done with the blood, being put in a centrifuge to separate it and test the different parts.
-1	I know nothing about medical issues. I just know it's probably not a good thing to do drugs constantly and eat junk food and go for a run every now and then.
-1	I used to work as a certified nursing assistant and worked in a retirement home caring for elderly residents. Part of that training was obviously taking vital signs. Years later my husband got sick and he was in the hospital. A CNA entered his room to take his vitals and his blood pressure was extremely high. I asked her if she was going to retake it. She said she would consult with the charge nurse, I told her - why don't you just retake them now, that blood pressure is too high. She retook the blood pressure and he was fine, but I am glad I had the knowledge I did to ask for a re-take.
1	When my wife was diagnosed with breast cancer. You go thru life experiencing thehighs, lows. The good days after chemo, the bad days. The hours you spen itting with your wife thru chemo process.
1	I don't think that I have a good understanding of medical issues, but through nutrition education in college feel that I have a solid grasp of health issues, meaning I know how to maintain my health. I exercise almost every day and eat a healthful, balanced diet. I monitor my health and rarely get sick.
1	I kept having headaches and I was thinking it was caffeine withdraws. Then I realized that the caffeine was making me dehydrated and that is where the headache was coming from.
1	I recently worked with a colleague who had a seizure while at work. I was able to know to help ease her to the floor and protect her head by putting a sweatshirt near the side of her that was close to the wall. I called the paramedics and was able to tell them when the seizure started and how long it had lasted. 
-1	I WAS AT A PARTY AT A FRIENDS HOUSE AND ONE OF THE PEOPLE ATTENDING I NOTICED ACROSS THE ROOM HIS FACE WAS BLUE. HE WAS CHOKING. I QUICKLY RAN OVER AND GAVE HIM THE HEIMLICH MANEUVER AND SAVED HIS LIFE 
1	I am trained as a medical assistant so I have to be educated on many health facts and matters. I also am currently majoring in public health.
1	I had a recent Ha1c of 15.3 and given several oral medications to control blood glucose, cholesterol, and blood pressure.I told my doctor that I would like to change my lifestyle and return in three months. I was not told of diet alternatives in combination with exercise. I began a strict diet regimen and exercise program reducing my Ha1c to 5.8 in three months without medication. Reducing my blood glucose also corrected other stated problems.
1	I was recently hospitalized for two weeks. I received multiple tests before it was discovered that my gallbladder function had ceased. In that time I became very aware of the procedures and tests which were performed.
1	My friend's and family usually ask my opinion on their health issues, ask my advice about which vitamins or supplements could help them with the issues they have. 
1	When I got a concussion, I knew the symptoms to look for and when to go to the emergency room. I had enough medical knowledge about concussions to know when to seek help.
1	Based upon my symptoms, nasal congestion, temperature, and lethargy, I can figure out if I need to go to the doctor or if I just need to stay home. I am able to make an education decision about if I need perception medication or if over the counter medications will be helpful.  
1	Earlier this year, I accurately diagnosed my acute bronchitis. I have had it frequently enough over my life to understand the barking cough and wheezing, and when I told the doctor, she said I was right on the money. It was viral, so there was nothing I could do except stay hydrated.
1	I was enrolled in a medical class in high school and I passed the class with an A. It's the only experience that demonstrates my health knowledge because I do not go to the doctors often. I did really well in that class though and even now I try and stay knowledgeable about different conditions and their symptoms. 
1	I have relied on past experiences and diagnosis. I observed a rash on a friends child that looked a lot like the hand foot and mouth all of my children had prior. I informed my friend that it can be dangerous for pregnant woman to contract (given advice i was given by my doctor when I had been pregnant and my family had gotten it). I advised my friend to get herself and her child checked out. She did and the child was seen to have hand foot and mouth.
1	Recently patient of mine asked me about a thickened, reddened, painful patch of skin on her abdomen.  I told her to make sure she showed her doctor because she may need antibiotics as it looked like cellulitis.  It was.
1	I was having certain things happening to me that made me think diabetes but my doctor was not seeing it. So I went to a new doctor and he caught it on the first visit. I quit going to the first doctor.
1	I have lowered my A1C by changing to a ketogenic diet.  My doctor did not agree with the diet but I did my own research and found what works for me.
1	well, as far as medical issues goes, I have always had an interest in first aid and became a youth teacher in the subject for most of my teen years in the Boy Scouts.  I've also received a certificate (after a class a couple years ago) for CPR at my work and am one of a few that can handle the dethibulater (?) at work.
-1	I have high triglycerides, my doctor wants me on statins.  I also drink alot, so the high triglycerides are probably from alcohol.  Statins wouldn't  help the underlying problem, which is my drinking. 
-1	I've studied anatomy in college and have a decent basic understanding of the physiology.  When I have had injuries, I have been able to easily understand the elements being discussed.
-1	When I had an abnormal skin growth on my back and when I determined it was a boil and the growth had gone back to normal.
1	An experience I had was when my mother in law died of cancer a few months ago.  I understood what cancer in the pancreas meant and how life-threatening it is.  I understood what treatment like radiation and chemotherapy would mean to her body, and the toll it would take on the family.
1	I am a cancer patient. I had a port implanted in my chest to facilitate chemotherapy and blood draws. One morning I woke up and my left arm, near the port, was swollen and sore. I immediately suspected that I had a blood clot in my left arm because of the port. I went to urgent care, and an ultrasound proved I was right. 
-1	It was when I had a collapsed long and had to go to the emergency room.  They asked me what I was doing previously and I described my workout to them and why I was doing certain exercises as that is why they believed the collapsed lung happened.
-1	I went to a doctor because i have been experiencing a lot of symptoms that showed that I have PCOS. I did my research, so when I went to the doctor to be diagnosed, I told her that I may have PCOS and she told me that I was most probably right. And I was.
-1	I have a family member who is diagnosed with borderline diabetes. She was seen by her doctor and as a result of her blood sugar being tested during a routine physical checkup. She was prescribed a preventive diabetes medication and instructed by her doctor to decrease certain foods from her diet such as, carbohydrates and foods containing sugar, as following these directions should improve her condition.
-1	A family member of mine was diagnosed with Diabetes , I learned that not only taking care of daily carbs and sugars had an effect on the well being of the person but also the was the person had there check ups .I have a low blood pressure and due to that I can drink coffee and eat dark chocolate, a normal bp for someone will cause me to feel dizzy ,and bad. I try to maintain my health by drinking vitamins and doing some type of physical activity . Checking and making a log of my blood pressure is a helpful tool in my day to day life.
1	I had border line high cholesterol and I chose to increase my intake of olive oil to help raise my good cholesterol which also lowered my bad and total cholesterol
1	Having a child allows me a lot of opportunities to demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues.  When a child cannot talk you have to go strictly off of exhibited symptoms and medical knowledge.  I have had to determine if his discontent was irritation, hunger, or illness.
1	i have had lower back problems for a number of years. my roommate recently hurt his back. he told me the stretches and exercises he was doing were not helping - i recommended some of what i do to maintain my back, and within a few days he was already beginning to feel better. 
1	My mother has a warm spot on her arm near the joint and after a few days it started to hurt and swell a bit.  I had looked at it and knew that it was gout, because I had seen it before on someone else.  She went to the doctor and sure enough that is what it was.
1	Whenever one of my family got sick, I usually know how to act in this situation for the best recovery and low cost.
-1	when my wrist got slashed open on a window and i had to get my  friends to get pressure on it and stop the bleeding while passing out from loosing lots of  blood when the ambulance got there they didn''t even unwrap it saying it was doing such a good job stopping the bleeding
-1	My mother has cancer so I have helped her a lot and have been there caring for her for 5 years. You learn a lot when someone is sick.
1	I have had a chronic illness for many years and have requested most of my lab work. While my doctors still review my results, they usually give them directly to me. 
1	I just did a lot of words equations, made me feel like I was back in the 4th grade. I didn't really demonstrate any prior knowledge.
1	When I was in a car accident a couple months ago, I assessed my injuries before moving, showing I understood the dangers of moving with certain injuries. I quickly noticed that the top half of my left femur was the only part that could move, indicating that my femur was broken. In the hospital, they explained things in terms more medical than what would be considered laymen's terms, and yet I was able to understand most of what they were saying.
1	I've had two heart procedures, both times involved having a stent put in and extensive research on how to change my diet and lifestyle in order to live a longer life.
1	Recently my Mother woke up ill and my step-father was taking care of her. He told me that she had a bad stomach ache and that it was probably her gallbladder as he had had gallstones and his symptoms were similar. The two of them were planning to wait until the attack was over and then make an appointment to see her doctor. I spoke to her and found out that she was vomiting a brown substance which I know can be the result of bleeding in the stomach. I insisted that she go to the emergency room where she was diagnosed to have a perforated ulcer and emergency surgery was performed immediately. 
1	I have worked in the health research and health technology fields. I worked in health research and as a contractor for the FDA.
1	I have quite a few medical issues. I have been diagnosed with PCOS and Hashimotos.  I do a lot of my own research.  I was also a Certified Nurse Assistant for a few years.
-1	When I was overweight I had to become more aware of what I was putting into my body. I began to count calories and eat less carbs. I also began to exercise more and drink more water. 
-1	I have demonstrated to my DO that I was paying attention to my cholesterol results when I was able to correct him on what my past 3 tests were using the health networks website.
1	I'm a long term kidney transplant survivor (20 years this year) and I have always felt confident understanding medical terminology. Now I'm not sure about that thought process!
1	When I had an infection and went to see my doctor, he told me what I had and what to take to treat it.  Once I got my prescription filled, I followed the instructions with the medication, being careful not to take it on a an empty stomach or with alcohol so that I would not suffer from adverse side effects and become ill.  
1	My oldest daughter from my first marriage had allergic asthma. 20 years later, my son fro my second marriage had the same diagnosis. I was able to converse with the doctor in a relatively knowledgeable fashion about the condition 
1	My father-in-law has a lot of health issues but is fairly stable most of the time. He started acting strange - not sleeping, smoking more frequently. I told my husband to get him to the doctor before he died - turns out he had renal failure and would have died if a few more hours had passed. I just noticed a change in behavior and knew something was very wrong. 
1	Studying in school has provided a good level of knowledge regarding health and medical issues.  In addition I have been around other people in the health field.
-1	My son had symptoms of a high fever, sore throat and lethargy.  I knew to take him to the doctor to get checked out because he possibly had tonsillitis and would need to have antibiotics.
1	I took care of my mother for 5 years.  Had to learn a lot. Most of it was basics about mobility, dementia, heart disease, dehydration, her medications.  A lot of info, but I am far from expert.
1	Knowing how to diagnose myself with bronchial issues and the symptoms that followed. I don't think I really have had the opportunity to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	I am bipolar and every time I get a new pdoc I give them all the details of my disease. When I was diagnosed, how long I've been on meds etc...  I also tell them the dosages that work best for me.
-1	I work in the home health care field and I had a lady go into a diebetic coma on me. I knew exactly what to do, I first called 911 and then called my office to let them know what was going on. I tried to wake her and she did rouse slightly, so I tried to get her to sip so orange juice, which she did and it seemed to help slightly. When the ambulance go the there they had to give her that insulin in a bag through and IV and then I was instructed to continue giving orange juice but also find something with a ton of sugar in it such as a candy bar or pop tart, we gave her that and she came out of it but was told to go to the hospital just to make sure everything was okay she refused so i sat with her for an hour or so before leaving just to make sure she was okay.
-1	I have TMJ disorder. I got it from a car accident. My jaw has arthritis, I get headaches and neck pain. I have found out a lot about this compared to what other people might know. 
1	It is a known fact that bananas are a great pre and post workout food in order to prevent injuries and cramps from strenuous exercise
1	During cold and flu season, one of my coworkers hung and onion to catch germs.  I commented that onions would not catch the flu virus as most is spread in bodily fluids.  The best protection was sanitizing surfaces and washing hands frequently.
1	I can't think of anything off the top of my head. I've gone into see my physician in the past about mental health issues and was attentive and understood what he was saying. Other than that there's not much.
1	When going to visit a family member in the hospital, who was there for cardiac related issues, upon walking in the room and looking at his cardiac monitor, I could tell there was a problem.  As soon as the staff saw we had arrived, they came in and told us he had to go to surgery immediately.
1	When I was under 18, I was about 15 pounds overweight and I had high blood pressure. I decided to lose the extra pounds through diet and exercise and in turn lowered my blood pressure to a healthy level.
1	My friend had a numbness in his little finger from playing bass. I had this condition before and explained to him that he had probably hit his elbow, and that the numbness could last for a while, and he should do stretches to alleviate the nerve damage. 
1	My husband had a stroke in our hotel room when he was only 39. My knowledge of the stroke sympoms allowed my to realize what was happening and seek medical help immmediately. When I got to the hospital I relayed this information and tha allowed us to get the immediate attention that was needed to prevent further damage to his brain.
-1	I had to have a c-section for a breech baby. I was able to understand what the procedure would be like and knew the recovery plan. I researched the medical issue in depth prior to the actual surgery.
1	I took human anatomy and the lab and I got a 93 and an 80 on the finals. Im not really involved in health or medicine so that's the extent of my experience with it. 
1	I was adamant about my grandmother not taking a certain blood thinner to an ER doctor. He prescribed it anyway despite my objections.  He was later suspended when her primary called the next day.
-1	I was presented with some issues as to why I was developing UTI's, for a man it is not common and the doctor wanted to run a bunch of test on my prostate. I decided to not have a few until we got the results of the first set.
1	I took a CPR class and had to use my skills one night my husband and I were out to dinner and a woman at a near by table passed out and fell to the ground.
1	I was having blisters showing up on my skin one day. Even after washing they would not go away. I knew that it was probably a staph infection. I decided to go to a doctor about it and they didn't have to give an explanation because of my familiarity with the diagnosis. 
1	My mother had a heart attack and while still in the hospital, she was almost given medication that would have interacted negatively with medication she was already taking. I caught the mishap before she was given the medication that would have interacted negatively. I had done research on the medications she was receiving in addition to speaking with the medical staff treating her. 
-1	4 years ago, I fell off a ladder in my garage and broke my hip in four places. I could not get up off the floor, at all. I had to drag myself out of the garage, accross my patio and into my house. This told me my hip was broken.
-1	I had to go to sexual clinic to find out if I had an STD. I knew some information about it but not quite enough to determine completely. I also had some friends go in which I knew most likely had something serious. 
-1	I was sick for a long time and no one knew why . Mood swings and exhuastion, heart palpitations and tired all the time The doctor kept saying it was emotional. Turns out I have an autoimmune thyroid disorder 
1	I remember when I had to take medication for my anxiety, my doctor told me that it was going to reduce my issue significantly. He told me it would reduce it with at least 60%, I knew it was going to help a lot.
-1	When I self-diagnosed my flu symptoms.  I started to feel bad when I thought I had a normal cold, and I was experiencing worse symptoms like dizziness and weakness.  I figured it had to be the flu based on the information I read on the internet some years earlier.
1	In my adolescence, I rarely got my menstrual period. This led me to do a lot of research on the topic and I got better and looking through a lot of information to make informed choices.
-1	I worked as a CNA for a couple years. To do that, I had to take a few medical classes. I have also taken some classes concerning health for my BA degree. Together, with being a mom, I have learned some things about health.
1	I help my grandmother manage her diabetes and medications.  I do this by advocating for her at her doctor's appointments and learning about the best ways and how she needs to be taking all of her medications including her insulin.
1	I learned about what is involved with a cholecystectomy when My wife needed to have her gallbladder taken out. By the time I watched a YouTube video of an example of a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, I knew what was going to happen next in the surgery.
1	My mother has celiac disease, so I have become very careful to ensure that when cooking for her, or arranging a family meal at a restaurant that food is prepared carefully to prevent gluten contamination. It has also made me more aware of product ingredients and labelling. 
1	My father had stents put in due to blockage in his arteries that almost caused a heart attack.  I had learned all about stents, arteries, blockage etc after this even occurred.  I had to help my dad take daily pills and check his heart rate and blood pressure to make sure everything was how the doctors wanted it. 
1	I once went to the emergency room for severe stomach pains and I was diagnosed with having gallstones. Because I have had an interest in the way the human body work, I was able to easily understand what gallstones are and how they affect my body. My diagnoses led me to further research the human body so I can fully understand how my body works and what could be the cause for any issue I might have.
-1	I suffer daily with anxiety and depression. When a friend or anyone asks about my opinions on the topic, I feel like I have the experience, since I've been dealing with it my entire life.
-1	Whenever a doctor feels like changing up the anti-depressants I'm on I feel as if I have enough knowledge about them at this point to know how they would affect me. For example I know that my body doesn't tolerate SSRI's so I make sure to not receive that type of medication.
1	Whenever I get truly sick for a prolonged period of time or feel it may be serious enough to see a professional I generally do my research first through google, webmd, and other resources so that I have a general idea of what it could be. Even if I'm wrong when discussing these possibilities with my doctor it helps give him a general idea of what it might actually be or helps narrow it down some.
-1	I read an article once in a women's magazine which helped me diagnose myself with cystitis. I wasn't sure what I had but the article made me realize there was a very strong possibility that's what I was experiencing and it turned out to be true.
1	I was sick so I looked for medicine in my house and found some by reading the label and seeing that it would make me better and feel better as well. I continued this method with buying stuff if I didn't have it or going to a doctor to tell me what to use if I needed to use something.
-1	I signed up for a CPR/AED/FirstAid and Lifeguard certification course.  One thing I had to do was explain to my classmates what CPR stands for, cardiopulmonary resuscitation which uses chest compression's to keep blood circulating until emergency help arrives.  I learned to handle an AED, automated external defibrillator, which is a portable electronic device that automatically diagnoses life-threatening heart rhythms and can save lives through delivering an electrical shock, known as a defibrillation, which helps the heart re-establish an effective rhythm.  I learned about Lifeguarding and various techniques to save a passive and submerged victim.  One important rescue was being able to use your rescue tube to perform appropriate rescues such as active drowning victim rear rescue and passive drowning victim rear rescue.  
1	about 8 years ago i had undergo tests to see if i had contracted the HIV virus (this was after a mishap at work).  i was told the chance of my actually having the disease was something like  .01%.     knowing this didn't stop me from worrying a lot, but the statistics indicated i was virtually in the clear so i always had the statistics to fall back on when i was afraid of the results.
1	I have a child with a life long illness and am responsible for all the contact with Drs, and managing her care. I decide what medicines we are taking not what the Dr might want without doing my own research first. I do review medical journals about her condition. 
-1	I really do not know much about the medical field, medicine, I wish I knew more. My father was in the hospital he has diabetes, he went into a diabetic coma a while back and I am still trying to understand how much insulin he needs to take.
1	I was having an issue with stiffness in my elbows and knees and when i complained about it to my doctor he wanted to order a test for RA. I told him about my adventures in Connecticut and how often I got bitten by ticks and so I thought I had lyme disease instead. He seemed unconvinced but ordered the test just the same and sure enough i came back positive.
1	I suffered from infertility about five years ago. I had to take myself and my medical history from doctor to doctor to seek treatment. I had to understand a lot of what was going on so that new doctors could know how best to treat my case.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issue was when I used the same techniques i learned after my right shoulder surgery and used it to rehabilitate my left shoulder after surgery. This way i didn't have to go to therapy and was able to treat myself. 
1	Recently I had several symptoms of hypothyroidism, this was found out by doing much research online through several sources. After pushing my doctor to check my thyroid levels, they were in fact off, and so I was put on medication, thus reducing my symptoms. 
1	My 92 year old mom recently fell on concrete. She had no outward signs of broken bones and was conscious and cognitively astute. There was a tremendous amount of bleeding. I felt it best to call an EMS vehicle to get her to the hospital being that she takes Pradaxa, a blood thinner. 
-1	One of my friends sisters was having some health issues and her doctors were having problems figuring out what was wrong with her. my friend knew of my health history and shared what her sister was going through. her symptoms sounded familiar, so I reached out to her, we talked and I told her I thought she had something I had struggled with. Gastroparesis. Her Doctor tested for it, and I was right! That was what she had! she went on medicine and felt better!
1	I had never had a urinary tract infection, but I began having unusual symptoms on urination. When I went to the doctor, I suspected that he might test my urine for evidence of infection. He did.
1	I saw an accident once and the guy was having some blood loss from his arm. I knew from my first aid training that stopping the flow of blood coming out was a good first step in a situation like that. I got the guy to hold his arm up to minimize the blood loss and tightened a torn shirt around his arm to help until an ambulance arrived.
1	i suffered from acne for several years.  i had worked with a few different dermatologists and tried many different drugs and topical treatments that were recommended to me with little success.  i did some research and discovered that my acne was most likely related to hormones.  i asked my doctor to switch my birth control, which solved my acne problem.  
1	I have had to practice the heimlich maneuver on someone who was choking before. That is as close to demonstrating medical knowledge as I have been
1	i try to analyze the labels of the food to understand the intake and try to ask questions to the medical service provides like doctors and nurses about the complex scenarios which are difficult to understand
1	I have kids, which means I get to play junior fake doctor every week with the amount of things that happen to them.  Spider bites, rashes, sickness, I get it all and I have to make decisions all the time.
1	I was able to accurately describe my symptoms in a quick and concise manner while I was experiencing an allergic reaction to a medication I was recently on.
1	I can't really think of a situation.  I haven't had any bad diagnosis.  I usually understand the basics of health things when it comes up.
1	I once had a colleague that was complaining of joint pain and fatigue. I told him he should get checked for hemochromatosis, since those are both symptoms of the disorder. He had Nordic ancestry so I felt he may be at risk. He got the test and he did have hemochromatosis and credited me with getting the correct diagnosis.
1	When i had to have surgery i was able to read about the surgery and the risks of it and make the correct decison for me.
1	I once dislocated my shoulder I was easily able to understand the needed medical care, surgical procedure, recovery, physical therapy, and all other aspects of treatment.
1	I had a pink nodule on my skin and it would not go away.  i thought it was a pimple or  wart.  i let it go and someone said it could be skin cancer.  i thought no way that it was cancerous, but I had it checked out.  Turns out it was basal cell that is pre-cancerous if not treated and removed.  I have gone to the dermatologist regularly for 5 years and each year something has been found to remove.  Being proactive is important.
-1	I was presented with a symptom once and I insisted that it wasn't normal. It turns out that it was strep throat and not just a sore throat, I knew it was different from the second I felt it.
-1	I have been taking care of all my family medical forms, records, doctor visits, etc. That includes my elderly mother who has had many health issues and several surgeries. I filled out all the paperwork, talked to doctors for her and helped her make decisions.
1	Over the past year I've developed headaches and sensations of dizziness seemingly at random. after going to doctor after doctor I landed up at a neurology office. I then learned I have an issue with my spine that causes these symptoms.
-1	I had a health issue that really affected my life, my job performance and just my overall well being so this caused me to become knowledgeable and soak up everything i can about how to have hood healthy h and how to better take care of myself.
-1	I have crohns disease and I have scoliosis and i have been going in and out of doctors since i was 12 years old.
-1	I had to help my supervisor with her thyroid issues.I had to have my thyroid removed and learned a lot about it along the way.She is having problems with hers and might have to have hers removed.
-1	When I go to the doctor and have to fill out the form about myself. I usually have a lot of questions when filling it out.
1	I had to take a first aid class and my dad is a doctor by trade, so when a friend asks whether something needs to go to the hospital I am reasonably confident in my answers
-1	My son was very sick 2 years ago.  He had complications from pneumonia.  He was in and out of the hospital and we switched hospitals when the first one wasnt helping him.  I lost a lot of faith in Doctors after that.
-1	I had a time in my life where i could not see right, i could not walk right, I in general was just having a lot of issues. I found out I had NMO
1	My father recently almost died. I was with him in the hospital every single day until he recovered. I was able to learn a lot about medicine, as well as the technology within the systems and how it all works together.
1	There was a time when I knew I knew how to self diagnose myself medically. I had been having really sharp abdominal pains under my right bottom rib cage area. I looked up all my symptoms I have been having everything and I thought I had gallbladder issues. Well, I ended up going to the ER. After several tests, I turned out to be right. I had to have my gallbladder removed.
1	"I felt sick as a dog, had sore throat and was exhausted. I went to the doctor's and he said I was fine. I went home and became sicker. I went back to the doctor's and he said I was fine. I went home again and researched my symptoms: Epstein-Barr and strep throat were the results. I marched back to my doctor's office and said, "" I have  the Epstein Barr virus and strep throat--I need antibiotics for the strep throat and a note to be excused from work so that I can rest""--and that's what I finally got from the doctor."
1	Whenever I go to the doctor I prepare ahead of time.  I do what research I can online.  I have hypertension so I take blood pressure medicine, and monitor by blood pressure at home.  I have started exercising and eating a healthier diet.  I keep track of all that I do and go prepared with my notebook to the doctor.
-1	my wife had a stomach pain and she started bleeding we thought its normal to bleed a little during pregnancy but later we realised it was a miscarriage and the result showed possible chance of uterine cancer
1	I was hit and run by a car while riding my bike. I had no radial pulse, lost memory, had multiple broken bones, and was 1mm away from being paralyzed. In addition, my lungs were filling with fluid. I learned a lot about the anatomy of my back, my lungs and what a radial pulse was.  I learned the treatment plans for my conditions and what could be done and what could not be done. Previously, I had no experience in these areas. I had to trust the doctors and what literature they provided to educate myself. It was a long recovery with still remaining issues that I continue to seek treatment and get educated about the body and recovery.
-1	My experiences have been to listen to my body, as I'm getting older I realize that if you pay attention to the seasonal, cyclical, and redundant reactions to changes, you will begin to learn your own body better than any other person; you can learn to trust it.
1	Most of my knowledge regarding health or medical issues is not from learning about them from doctors or reading about them on the internet, but rather it is from my previous experiences with them in my own life. When my friend was experiencing problems with frequent stomachaches and trips to the restroom, I told him that it sounded familiar to my own experience with the stomach flu. After being home-ridden for a week, he informs be that it was indeed the stomach flu and that my advice for him to take time off of school was important and necessary.
1	I had started coughing and had a slight pain in my throat after work one day. The next morning i looked in the back of my throat and lucky me i found some white puss pockets right around my lymph nodes. I immediately identified this as strep and made an appointment with my doctor. 
1	I recently moved and therefore, had no doctor.  I twisted my ankle very badly.  The pain was excruciating and the bruising encompassed my entire foot and went well up my leg.  I didn't really want to pay an ER bill so I took a wait and see attitude.  I felt safe in doing so because I could move my toes a little, and because I did get a little better daily.  I was soon confident that I had no broken bones.  My husband had a 50 percent tendon tear in the past, and knowing what that was like, and how it was treated helped.
-1	I have medical knowledge about asthma and how to care for people with it. I have dealt with having it my whole life.
-1	I had a nose bleed that would not stop. I remembered how a paramedic once told me, in order to stop a nose bleed; you place a gauze under the inner lip and apply some pressure until the bleeding stops. I always thought you lean your head bank until the bleeding stops. It worked like a charm when I did it the medics way.
1	In my mid-20s I began experiencing wheezing and shortness of breath during certain periods of time. I recognized the danger of pulmonary issues and sought medical advice, I was subsequently diagnosed with asthma.
1	I noticed my Father was coughing a lot and wheezing. He seemed to be extra weak as well. I thought something serious was happening to him and he thought that he had the a cold. I convinced him to let me bring him to the ER and he was diagnosed with heart failure and they had to put a stint in one of his arteries.
-1	when i was pregnant and I seemed to have read all the articles, publications and blogs about pregnancy and giving birth.  When it was time i felt pretty calm about the whole process. 
-1	Last year I was diagnosed with diabetes.  I have lowered by A1C from 6.5 to 5.9 all by myself with diet.  I am now conscious of everything I put in my mouth.  I check my blood sugar every morning and 2 hours after a meal that I feel will raise my blood sugar. 
1	I was diagnosed with a fibrocystic adenoma at 16.  Before I received the diagnosis, I was told by two doctors that it was just a cyst. I knew that something else was going on and did my own research for potential answers before going to the third doctor and feeling confident in asking the correct questions to receive the diagnosis that fit with the symptoms.
1	One of my roommates collapsed earlier this year, and while waiting for EMS to arrive I had to perform CPR. Administering chest compressions doesn't require extensive medical knowledge, but it was an opportunity to utilize the training we had to take in high school, and once the ambulance arrived I was relieved that I hadn't accidentally killed him in the interim.
1	My wife felt lumps in her breast. From my medical knowledge I knew that the firm nodule tha was easily moved was likely a cyst. The other one had a chance to be malignant so she had a diagnostic mammogram and ultrasound. I could see during the X-rays that the lump was not characteristic of a cancer. Then, during ultrasound I could see the round black hole on the screen indicating all lumps wee cysts. Was able to relieve both me and the wife while we waited for the radiologist to tell us the same thing.
1	When my father was found to need a blood thinner I did the research to understand the different medications he could take along with the side effects.  When I asked the doctor about the different medications, we both agreed on one.
-1	I have done extensive research into my own medical conditions and I'm able to have more meaningful fulfilling discussions with my doctor's because I have enough knowledge to discuss treatment options with my doctors
-1	I went to and graduated from nursing school. That's not enough characters, so I'll add that it was a hospital school (they're long gone) so I'm a diploma nurse. I graduated in 1974 and left nursing in 1985.
1	An experience would be when I was hospitalized for appendicitis. I learned a lot being in the hospital that one time. What I should expect from the doctors and what needs to be done while I am there. 
-1	The only time I can think of is the case where I had to go to three different doctors for several tests because they couldn't figure out what was wrong.
-1	When I was pregnant, I would get a little sick to my stomach everyday, not just in the mornings.  By my 3rd pregnancy, I knew exactly what to take everyday to help me feel not so sick everyday.  I also knew certain foods to eat that would help.
1	I don't really have any specialized knowledge of health or medical issues. I have provided first aid to an injured employee when I was supervising them. They cut themselves pretty severely , and I held pressure on the wound until the company nurse arrived.
1	I had an injured finger amNd after doing some research determined that I had a droppedfinger.  The nurse practitioner just said I dont know what to do for you or what is wrong with your finger.  After waiting 3 weeks to see a specialist, the specialist told me that I had a dropped finger.
-1	I am not fully knowledgeable with medical issues.  I am just aware on something that are not that serious illness such as fever and other minor illnessess
-1	My experience of health issues with doctors is that they are only in the profession for money.  Caring and morals seem to go out the window.
-1	I was on a medication prescribed by my doctor.  I got severe constipation with in days of starting the drug.  I looked up the side effects, and saw that constipation was one of them, so I followed up with my doctor for advice.
1	I work in a scientific field and am working to go to medical school. I actively read medical literature and shadow a physician regularly. 
1	I had to describe to my anesthesiologist what a cavernoma was and how a previous cavernoma affected me.  He was not familiar with the condition and had to research it based on the info I gave him.
1	Any time I wake up with a headache or a stomach ache, I demonstrate my knowledge of health by not panicking if there are no severe symptoms.  
-1	THE LAST TIME I WAS AT THE DOCTOR I WAS DIAGNOSISED WITH HEART BURN. I HAVE BEEN DIADNOISED WITH THIS BEFORE SO I WAS AWARE OF THE SYMTOMS
1	When my oldest child recently became ill and had a high fever we could not get to go down, my knowledge of health issues helped. I knew to not be very concerned when his fever stayed at 102, and he continually kept liquids down, but grew concerned when the fever reached 104. I called our doctor and he agreed with me on what we should do next to get the fever down. He wanted me to call back if it didn't work, but to try avoiding the eremgency room if possible with the flu outbreak locally. My minor knowledge with health and medical issues helped me be able to care for my son appropriately and help him stay as comfortable as possible at home. 
-1	I have hypertension. I know that I have to limit my sodium intake and watch what I eat. I make sure that when I am at someone's house that I keep in mind what it is that they are making that I take into considering the amount of salt used when they are cooking. 
1	I was once over weight. I learned how to lose weight and keep it off by doing research and sticking to a strict diet and exercise regiment. I was able to keep the weight off and have been studying nutrition on a regular basis.
1	When I had blood in my stool, I looked up the symptom online and determined I most likely had hemorrhoids.  I went to the doctor anyways because it could have been more serious.  They listened to my description of the problem (I did not change it to match the online symptoms because I didn't really have any pain) and they prescribed me fiber and told me that if it continued or became diahrrea-like to come back immediately.  I took the fiber and shortly after I no longer saw blood in my stool.
1	I really can't think of a situation. I depend on my doctor for info. If I don't know something I seek out resources to help me.
-1	After years of taking care of my grandmother's medications, when her doctor wanted to ignore her odd behavior, I made it clear in no uncertain terms that her medication could not be the cause of it, and if he started messing with it, her diabetes would become unstable. He didn't listen. Guess what happened to her diabetes? Yeah, listen to the person who has been doing it for years. 
-1	I know a little about health but i don't know percentages and math equasions into the mix. I feel pretty confidident in my medical making decisions. 
1	My son has epilepsy and I had to explain to the doctors that I understood what was going on with him when they didn't believe i understood. They looked up the information I gave them and followed treatment according to what information was given.
1	A little over a decade ago, I injured my knee. I knew it was bad, but I didn't go to the hospital for a few days. In the meantime, I gave myself my own diagnosis, and it was later confirmed by a doctor.
1	I used to have once a year health screening for insurance. they would take blood do blood pressure etc. typically i was able to predict my bp and discussed with administrators of testing what the bp meant
1	I rold this one You are an inmate in a concentration camp. A sadistic guard is about to hang your son who tried to escape and wants you to pull the chair from underneath him. He says that if you dont he will not only kill your son but some other innocent inmate as well. You dont have any doubt that he means what he says. What should you do?
1	I really don't have much experience with health issues.  i just paid attention in high school health class. Sometimes I read articles online if I feel curious about the subject.
1	This is a weird and difficult question to answer. I went through a period of 6 months where my doctors believed I had early onset rheumatory arthritis. They subjected me to a battery of tests and I learned what each of them did beforehand. I've always understood how to properly administer my medication or follow doctor's orders as well. 
1	My father was a doctor so I grew up around medical terms. Then I worked in his office for many years so I learned a lot about mmedical terms and issues.
1	Whenever I visit a new doctor, I have to answer extensive questions about my own medical history, to include information about current prescriptions, family history of health disease and diabetes, and so forth.  In order to answer those questions, I have to understand what I'm being asked about.  
1	Both of my aunts got diagnosed with breast cancer at the same time so we all had to go get tested for the BRACA gene.  This taught me a lot about hereditary cancer and breast cancer. 
1	I have helped my husband when he is worried about his anxiety and depression. I used my knowledge of my own feelings and needs to help him understand if he had the same symptoms as me or not.
1	A few years back I had what I thought was a routine stomach ache from the flu.  After a few days the pain had not subsided and it didn't seem like the same old flu.  Given the location of the pain and my knowledge from popular culture I thought maybe it could be appendicitis.  I went in and I was correct.  It was removed immediately. 
1	Well about 10 years ago I experienced a staph infection on my leg that needed to be treated.  At the time I the cost to have it treated was well beyond my means as I was between jobs and my co-pay was infeasible. Luckly I knew to process of dealing with such an infection was to remove the core from the boil, disinfect the wound, place a drain, then cover it up and request some antibiotics.  I was able to lance the boil and do all the treatment work (I have a very high tolerance for pain) and requested my doctor prescribe some antibiotics.  When I arrived at the office he examined the treated wound and told me he was impressed I was able to do that myself and that it looked as good as the work he would have done.  He did suggest I let a professional do it next time as I could have hurt myself but still I managed to treat it myself.
1	I demonstrated knowledge of medical issues when I was explaining to a tennis student of mine what tendonitis is. It is something I have had in past playing as often as I do and I very comfortable explaining what it is. 
-1	An example is i know the flu is a virus and has to run its course but why the doctor wrote a prescription for my 3 year old to take a prescription and told me got her to take it because it will take her flu away.
-1	i had to give cpr to a friend at the office, i was very swift and i conducted the process properly,  i was confident and exhibited strong knowledge of health and medical issue 
-1	I diagnosed myself of having low thyroid by doing research online. I compared my symptoms and presented it to my doctor who did a blood test and confirmed. 
1	A few years ago, my dad was having some stomach pains.  My mom and I took him to the doctor that specialized in stomach and related issues.  It seemed like we filled out paperwork for awhile.  It was a lot to it.  Later, my dad was diagnosed with having pancreatic cancer.  That lead to him to having surgery which went well.  From then on, both mom and me helped him to recover and do everything that the doctor told us to do to help my dad.
-1	When my husband was sick and had to be taken to hospital three different times it was helpful to understand some of the information more after each visit.
1	I hate math! Never was good at it. I demonstrated knowledge when my son was recently life flighted to UNC Chapel Hill for an emergency shunt surgery. He purged and a Resident wanted to do an MRI on him again. I tried to explain with projectile vomiting and laying a kid on his back he could aspirate. The young Resident exclaimed that to put the shunt in he had to guide it with CT. This was the first time I had heard of that. He got sassy with me. I told him the machine would need to be closed down if it got vomit all over it. Eventually I got the charge nurse and I told the young Doctor to be that he was off the case. The Head of his Department came to us and said we were right, my child could aspirate if left on his back in that MRI. (He cannot sit up alone as it is.) I have to advocate all the time or things can be dangerous.
1	I had cancer eleven years ago. I learned a lot about side effects and how to control them. I also learned a lot about different medications.
-1	I don't really have a lot of knowledge when it comes to health and medical issues. I try to just listen to my doctor and do what she tells me to do.
1	When I took my mother to the ER and had to educate the nursing staff not only about her condition but also her oxygen needs and some meds she couldn't have.
1	My mother has diabetes and she neglects it.  I get on her to check her blood sugar and to eat better and exercise.  I'm very concerned about her life and her limbs!
1	When a doctor explained what type of cancer my dad had, I demonstrated that I understood by asking various questions.  Basically I understood how serious it was.
-1	My mom has always had health problems and was always in and out of the hospitals. I learned a lot by listening and asking questions.
1	My mom came home from work one day and seemed slightly confused. She kept asking me what day it was and what time it was. Since she didn't have any difficulty speaking, I asked her to smile and raise both hands over her head, which she did without trouble. I asked her questions about her job/family/identity, she answered easily. I watched her overnight, did some research, and found out it was transient global amnesia.
1	With my first pregnancy, I was induced for gestational hypertension. For my second pregnancy, I was able to discuss preventive treatment with my OBGYN and went on to have a normal low-risk pregnancy. 
-1	My son experienced aversions at a very young age to many fabrics, and other sensory experiences. After the years of doctor visits to neorologists for so many of my own neurological problems I was able to see correlating patterns between he and I. I was able to get him seen by a developmental pediatrician much sooner than I would have were I unexperienced in such matters. I consequently obtained a diagnosis that allowed me to request specialized services at school at the earliest possible grade. As well, I was able to help at least 2 friends see that their kids had some issues or symptoms that similarly called for a more proactive approach with their respective healthcare resources than if I hadn't pointed it out. 
1	Mother was diagnosed with SLE. Was told that ANA and dsDNA titers came back positive as well as reactive C protein. Was recommended immunosuppressant medication in order to decrease long term cardiovascular and renal complications associated with SLE and try to maintain SLE in remission. After continual therapy ANA and dsDNA titers are undetectable thus indicating remission.  
-1	I am able to tell which kind of sickness i have. I can get my own medicine that is right for the symptoms. Don't need a doctor all off the time 
-1	My daughter had a fever one time. It was under 100 degrees. My husband wanted me to take her to the doctor but I remember her pediatrician saying that I did not need to bring her in unless the fever went above 100.4 degrees. We were able to treat the fever naturally without taking her to the doctor. 
1	I was in a car accident which left my back hurting.  I have done one month of physical therapy and the doctor asked if I thought going back to it would help and if not what would I want to do next.  I said the physical therapy wasnt going to work the way I need it to and suggested the pain management next.
1	I don't think I have an experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health.  I did not take and classes related to medicine nor go to medical school.  I do not pretend to know about topics I don't know about.  When I have anything I see as a possible health issue I seek professional help.
1	I have been diagnosed with MS.  I have to be able to understand what it means to be in a flair and when to contact the doctor vs when to go to the ER vs when to just deal with it at home.
-1	There's been times where I was at the hospital and I was already suspecting myself to have POTS. I told them about how my heart rate increases when standing, among other things, and the doctors just told me that I had panic disorder and wouldn't listen to me. Lo and behold, I was right and it was an incident where I knew more than the doctors. 
1	I do not have many experiences with health or medical issues. The issue that I take the most care is my sexual health and get tested often, use birth control to manage cramps and acne and went and got an IUD which really helped
1	MY EXPERIENCE WITH MY LUNG FIBROSIS. DIDN'T KNOW MUCH ABOUT IT IN THE BEGINNING BUT HAVE BECOME MORE KNOWLEDGEABLE AND ASK QUESTIONS AND DO RESEARCH CONTINUALLY.
1	My son was born with spina bifida two years ago. Every time I take him to a doctors apartment I have to make medical decisions and asses his progress at home. After his spinal closure as a newborn I had to treat his closure, administer medication, and preform sterile procedures. 
1	I had to give my nephew his doses of medicines every day when he got home from school. Too much would have really hurt him and not giving him the right things could have hurt or killed him. I had to make sure every dosage was right according to the doctors orders.
-1	I was diagnosed with diabetes and i had to take metoformin. My A1C was at 6.5. I also had high blood pressure but i do not reme8the meds I was on.
1	My daughter was born prematurely and insisted that she was ready to eat on her own before the doctors and nurses were comfortable removing her feeding tube. They agreed to remove her feeding tube and she performed so well that she was released from intensive care 48 hours later. 
1	I have had an emergency operation to correct a colovescicular fistula, and my recovery took 3 months. I am also a health care professional,  for the last 26 years. During the process I was constantly elevating my wife's level of medical knowledge in order to help her care for me as I went through this situation. My explanation of the medical issues occurring to me also comforted my wife and gave her hope of a good outcome. 
1	A friend was diagnosed with breast cancer.  I explained what I knew about stages, treatments options I had read about and what recovery was like.  When she started having challenges with treatment outcomes, I helped her find a new doctor.  
1	I have scoliosis, so I know a lot about it. I won first place in a state competition for my knowledge of scoliosis.
-1	I have had many issues with Hernias. I have had 6 surgeries to repair them. I feel I have so much knowledge about this medical issue and can tell  my doctor just exactly thats  wrong and whats needed to repair it
-1	I had to go through my mom having cancer and going to all of her doctor visits. It was very traumatic for the both of us but I was trying to be strong for her because If I showed weakness to her then it was going to be harder for her to go through this.
-1	I was visiting a doctor for my GI issues.  My previous research allowed me to discuss exactly what parts of my body that I was experiencing pain.  I was able to understand his terminology like Bile.
1	I dont really have any of these experiences.  I rarely get sick and very unfamiliar with medical terminology and conditions.
1	When I was hospitalized for a chronic disease. I had to learn everything about it. It was a brand-new diagnosis and I was unable top understand all the implications at first. So I had to learn about it. moving forward I was able to advocate for myself and ask proper questions. 
1	When I gained a lot of weight due to some medication that I had been prescribed, I wanted to lose it.  I knew what the implications of carrying that extra weight around were for my body and it was not acceptable to me.  I knew how to do do a weight loss program with healthy eating and exercise without any medication to help me lose weight.
-1	I was feeling very ill and I decided to do some research before going to the doctor. I knew the basics about my health and was able to use that knowledge to get a good grasp on what was going on with me.
1	I was somewhat diagnosed with PCOS several years ago. I had diagnostic testing but I recall it being inconclusive if I actually cystic ovaries. The doctor made the diagnosis based on bloodwork and symptoms (acne).
1	I suddenly broke out in bronchospasms and uncontrolled life-threatening allergic reactions. No medication or allergy shots could help. My ANA was constantly positive. I insisted I had Lupus and pushed to be seen. The doctor gave me blood work and diagnosed me with SLE. Since then, my health problems have gotten worse, even with the Plaquenil.
1	I used to instruct medical students on how to give physical exams.  Through that job I was moderately versed in the health and medical issues specific to that area of examination.
1	My life in general is a constant experience regarding medical knowledge and issues. I am always suspicious when Doctors are to quick to prescribe the latest pharmacuticals on the market which they can profit highly from pending the issuance of insurance coverage. Ignorance is not bliss, it is deadly.
-1	I had to do IVF to have my son. I actually had to tell my doctor some of the infertility lingo, and inform the nurse on some of the things we have to go through when doing IVF. Some of the things they had no clue you had to do. Like and SSG, having blood draws every other day, having to inject specific medications at a very specific time. I guess if they have never dealt with IVF, they may not know, since they aren't specialized in that area.
1	"I am actually in a more ""extreme"" situation than most people right now because I unfortunately had to become my husband's caregiver at a young age (28)... He shot himself in the head and is now quadriplegic. I have had to learn a great deal about how to care for a person in his condition, physical and occupational therapy, (mental health therapy for myself), medicines, diagnoses, possible future outcome, etc. all within the past year and in a very short amount of time. I wish I wouldn't be in the position to have had to learn all of these things in this kind of circumstance but it definitely has taught me a lot."
-1	My husband had Type 2 diabetes.  I became very aware if his blood sugar got too high by the symptoms he showed.  IE: sweating because of high sugar or pale lips because of low sugar.
-1	I was having high blood pressure and realized I hadn't been working out very much and I told my doctor this and about how my diet was bad. I explained why my blood pressure went up and it was accurate according to him.
1	I am a retired pharmacist with over 40 years experience and worked in a hospital setting for the last 7 years.  When I found out 20 years ago that I had a nodule on my thyroid I totally trusted the doctor and DID not do any of my own research and 10 years later after believed I was cured I found out I was in permanent A Fib so from then on I have research EVERY time I have been diagnosed with any condition and you wouldn't even believe what I went through to get treatment for cataracts and epi retinal membrane......
1	I remember I tried explaining to my friend Bill that he was having symptoms of a heart attack and that he should go to the doctor. He had chest pain and shortness of breath. He did not listen to me and ended up dying from a hearth attack the next day.
1	I was able to understand what my doctor was saying. I was familiar with  the drugs given which was found helpful at the pharmacy as well.
1	I'm a big medical drama fan, I watched House MD and my ex-girlfriend is a nurse too, so I get a lot of information from her too. In addition I like watching medical procedures on youtube and I look up definitions of words I'm not familiar with.
1	understanding dosages and which medicine to take at specific times to avoid getting sick or making sure I didn't combine medications that could have adverse reactions when chemically mixed
1	I have high cholesterol and I have been able to control the problem with diet and exercise. My mother had a stroke and I was able to help her recovery through what I learned from doctors and my own independent research 
1	I am not sure about a specific event but I have had multiple abnormal PAP tests and 2 LEAP procedures. That really got me paying attention to what my test results were showing as well as picking out the correct birth control options for me. I did a lot of research about it on my own and asked my doctor plenty of questions. 
-1	when I had gestational diabetes I learned to read health label to keep track of carbs and manage my blood sugars that is about all of the experience I have with knowledge of health or medical issues.  My first pregnancy was smooth my doctor told me what I needed to know and I followed suggestions.
1	"I am not sure I understand what you mean by ""knowledge of health or medical issues"". However, I recently went to the emergency room for a puncture wound in my finger. There I found out that their is a portable x-ray machine nurses can take around, but they have to stand outside the room as they activate it to ovoid build-up of radiation in their body over time. I also learned that in such cases, the biggest concern for doctors is whether or not your bone was damaged, as this can lead to serious infections. "
-1	I was diagnosed with an underactive Thyroid so i had to undergo many blood tests to find the proper dosage of medication. I see a doctor every three months making me very familiar with that particular illness.
1	I am a surgery resident.  This means I am engulfed in the medical field at all times of my occupational life.  I understand most of medical terminology.
1	I can take care of my children when they are ill. there are some allergic reactions in my family and I know from experience when they need to seek medical attention.
1	Being one of the main care takers when my grandmother had CHF, I had to learn about the medication and what to do to take care of my mother. We had to go visit the doctors and I had to tell them what medications were for what. I also had to explain to my grandmother what the medication did for her too. 
1	When I brought my child to the doctor and she was diagnosed with pneumonia and/or bronchial disease. I had little knowledge about the different and when she was explaining it I thought I knew what she was saying. But then I was trying to explain that to someone else and I felt lost. The doctor thought that she was explaining it well but maybe I was just not understanding.
1	I'm not exactly sure what experience to write about, but about 10 years ago, I stopped eating meat. I was quite concerned about getting enough protein, iron, and vitamin b12, so I planned my diet in a way that I would get the nutrients I need and remain healthy. I ate a diverse diet and made sure I had at least the recommended amount of each most days. When I had to get a blood test done 5 years later, everything was normal. I'd like to think that the care I took about planning my meals contributed to that. 
1	I am currently in a PhD program studying Transplantation Immunology at Emory University. If that alone doesn't demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues I'm not sure what does. I have also diagnosed a friend experiencing low blood sugar who ended up developing type II diabetes.
-1	I have. Food allergies one day my friend was feeling bad I saw all the signs of food allergy I shot her up with my episode pen 
1	Taking care of spouses who had diabetes taught me a lot about the disease. I lived with one husband who had Type 1, juvenile diabetes. It claimed his life when he was 53 years old because he did not adhere to established guidelines for people with Type 1. I learned about the differences between Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes and about the Isles of Langerhorn in the pancreas which produce insulin. I learned that a person can be producing too little insulin or the insulin being produced is not being metabolized correctly. I also learned how to help someone in insulin shock which is not the same as diabetic coma.
1	My husdand and two sons have a condition called Von Willebrand Disease (VWD) which is a genetic clotting disorder. I think, I am fairly knowledgeable about VWD. I have administered humate-p intravenously to my husband on a couple of occasions. 
1	My cousin got her tooth out and I knew exactly how to take care of her and what would happen if she didn't treat the extraction spot properly. 
1	I have a child with Autism. A close childhood friend of mine has a son about a year older than my own. After my son was officially diagnosed, she and I would compare our boys' behaviors. She insisted that her son exhibited the same characteristics that diagnosed my son with Autism; however, her doctors would not acknowledge her son's symptoms. Several years later, her son received and official Autism diagnosis and was able to receive beneficial services.
-1	I haven't had anything majorly life threatening happen to me so I don't have a lot of knowledge or experience about very many medical conditions. However, I learned a lot about women and newborns when I gave birth to my two children. I also really enjoyed learning about breastfeeding and helped a lot of my friends breastfeed successfully. 
1	I have a lot of friends that are pharmacists, doctors, or physician assistants. If I have any question that I can't find online I usually ask them.
1	My college roommate started feeling awful one evening. It came on very suddenly, and she began to feel pain in her lower abdomen and some serious nausea. I got our RA for the building to come look at her, and she called an ambulance because my roommate's condition was getting worse. I remembered those symptoms from my mother's kidney stone the previous year, and figured that might be what the issue was. We called my roommate's parents and they thought it might be appendicitis, but I was pretty sure about the kidney stone. My roommate rarely drank water but was otherwise healthy. I of course let the medical professionals do their work and didn't posit any theories, but I was right in the end. I felt that I had confident knowledge of what to do for my roommate in a medical crisis (helped her throw up, got help, supported the decision to call an ambulance, notified her parents, navigated the hospital later in a visit) as well as of this particular issue.
-1	I have taken medical transcription classes. I have read my different notes and charts that has allow me to better access what the doctor is saying.
1	When I had an ankle injury in college, athletic trainers helping me with that injury kept recommending ice, compression, and water running to keep fitness. I took note of the name of the injury and checked medical journals and found a tiny minority of people with this injury healed without surgery - so I sought out a surgeon to fix it instead.
1	When my grandmother was being examined by a neurologist he made her stand up and close her eyes and try to remain balanced. She could not keep her balance. We knew that her spinal cord was inflamed and I concluded that her cerebellum, which is the part of the brain that controls balance may also be affected. 
1	When I was younger, my mother was diagnosed with leukemia. During this time I had a lot of exposure to medical procedures and thus learned a lot.
1	I know how to take blood and also how to read the blood pressure monitor. I also took care of my mom one night when she was about to have a stroke I recognized it in the early stages when she started to slur and then she could not raise her hand so I  called for the ambulance immediately
-1	I recent battled breast cancer and won. I had a port put in, went threw 26 weeks of chemo and a mastectomy. 
1	For about three years I had my throat progressively closing up. I had to go to a Gastroenterology specialist because it was determined it might be a GERD issues that might be causing this my throat issue.  I had three procedures where my throat was opened up, but the Dr. could quite figure out what was going on as each endoscopy was returning nothing that could explain the obstruction. I started doing research on possible causes one possible cause took my attention. I knew because of other unrelated testing, that my iron was low, and in my research, a possible cause showed that low iron could be responsible for webs forming in the throat area. During my follow up meeting I asked the Dr. about this and after he ordered additional blood work, he confirmed that it was my iron-levels were the reason for the obstruction. He prescribed iron and I have not had to go back since. 
-1	I read a lot medical journals and articles a few times a week because the topic interests me. I've also worked in a hospital for 2 years and became quite familiar with some medical terminology, practices, and illnesses.
1	Years ago I had an ectopic pregnancy. I knew something was wrong but there wasn't anything seen on the ultra sound. I was well informed as to what symptoms constituted an emergency. Sure enough a few days later my tube burst and I knew exactly what to do... Get to the ER.
1	When I was pregnant, I was constantly having gallbladder attacks. I had researched a lot over how to prevent them and talked to my doctor numerous times. I tried many tricks to get rid of them and prevent them, which all worked. I since have had it removed and have helped 2 family members receive their own diagnoses of gallstones after recognizing that their symptoms were exactly like mine.
-1	When I started having lumps under my skin, which I knew to be a complication due to the Alpha One Anti-tripsyn deficiency, and my doctors didn't know anything about it. It is a condition called Panniculititis and it is due to my lack of alpha one protein, and I had to educate my own doctor about this.
1	During my educational years, I was pretty proficient in science. One of my favorite subjects. And also, my teachers throughout high school would discuss health, health issues, and medical procedures. Then there are also medical shows on tv that also go into those things as well. 
1	Uh, I dunno. I don't get sick very often and when I do, it's just for a few days and it's never that severe. The worst time I can recall is when I got food poisoning a few months ago and that lasted one day (one horrible, puking day). I've never had an experience that I would say demonstrated high knowledge of medical science.
-1	When my mother had the flu I helped take care of her, making sure she took not too much Tylenol and gave her plenty of fluids, etc.
1	The only real main surgical procedure that I've ever had done was a repair of my rotator cuff.  The surgery also cleaned up some cartilage that was floating around and shave down some bone spurs.  The procedure went with no problems and the doctor was very accurate when he told me the expected recovery time and any potential issues that may popup.  Within 6 months I was 90% recovered and by 18 months I felt 100% again.
1	I think the most important way that I have displayed my knowledge is by taking care of family members who have become ill. It is very important to watch children closely when they have an illness because their life could be in danger. The scariest moment was when my son had a fever and I knew to bath him to help bring down his temperature.
1	I haven't been faced with situation where I had to exercise any medical knowledge, most of my experience has been with accompanying patients and being there for emotional support.
-1	an experience that demonstrated the knowledge of my health issues was me having an asthma attack. I knew the symptoms of asthma while knowing other friends who have it. However, when I felt the same symptoms I knew that I was having an asthma attack. this allowed me to get to the hospital quicker and not have to wait around the paramedics to come. It was very disturbing because I didn't know what my outcome was going to be. However, I was able to make it there on time and get sorted out while the doctors giving me prescription to help ease the pain. 
-1	Was fitted for a pacemaker at the age of 27. I became very well read in mycondition(s) from that point on.
1	I was told I had an infection in my lungs because I smoked too much and it infected my lung sacs. I was told to take an inhaler and some antibiotics and the doctor told me to stop smoking or chances are ill develop cancer in a few years or sooner.
1	A few years ago during a stressful time in my life, my weight rose to 180 pounds.  I decided that I needed to make some changes in my life.  I started with tracking my meals in a food log on my phone and taking a daily measurement of my weight.  After a few weeks, I was able to determine that I was consuming far too many calories and that most of those extra calories came from a few empty calorie sources.  Over the course of the next few months, I slowly adjusted my diet, cutting out many empty calories and trying to add more nutrient dense foods.  After I year, I had lost 30 pounds and have been able to maintain a weight of around 150 pounds for the last few months.
1	My two year old daughter started crying and her neck started swelling up after eating a sandwich. I checked the label and saw there were hazelnuts in the bread.  I guessed that she must be having an allergic reaction so I gave her a dose of antihistamine and rushed her to the doctor.
1	I was on vacation with my father. We were taking a long road trip together. During the trip back my father was not feeling very well. He started complaining about pin in his left arm and strong headaches. Part of his face was starting to paralyse. I knew it had something to do with his heart and him eing diabetic. Sure enough a few days later he had a heart attack. Luckily I was watching over him and I reacted quickly and got him to a hospital in time to control the situation.
1	When taking care of my children my wife and I try our best to research their health and provide the best care for them.  For smaller items and conditions we will research solutions and provide care ourselves.  If it is something more than we can handle we will take them to a medical professional for care.  A lot of the common colds and such are things that we can cure ourselves.
1	At my age I am regularly scanned for colon cancer. It is common. While many people avoid it, I understand that avoiding it can cause rectal or colon cancer.  If detected early it is treatable.  I go every 5 years. I took one at 50 and 55
1	Whenever I go to see the doctor, I make sure to request that I be tested for diseases that have symptoms similar to what I'm experiencing.  The doctor usually suggests testing for very basic things, but I know that names of the tests and procedures that need to be done for other diseases that the doctor has overlooked.
-1	Once, I was prescribed an antibiotic.  I informed the doctor I was allergic to penicillin.  After reviewing the prescription, I got it filled.  The pharmacy I visit has my health information on file.  After turning it in, I was called to the front and informed the medicine was in the same family as penicillin.  I had no idea what that meant.  The pharmacist explained that I was probably allergic to it.  I was so mad! I had told the doctor what I was allergic to! If the pharmacist hadnt warned me, I could have been in big trouble. So mad!
1	I was a certified CNA for a few years. I have also worked in Home Health Care for several years. I took care of the elderly and several family members with health issues. 
-1	I did some medical research and realized that some symptoms I had might be similar to the symptoms for hypothyroidism. I talked to my doctor about it and we did a blood test. My blood test was negative for the disease, but it's still good that we tested for it.
1	I have a degree in a health-related field. I am generally knowledgeable about commonly used medications and can distinguish some conditions/symptoms. I understand that there's still uncertainties in the medical field.
1	"My grandmother was 87 yo and in need of a hip replacement.  Her maternal longivity history included an aunt who lived to 107 and her grandmother who lived to 100.  Her primary care doctor did not want to recommend a hip replacement surgery because of the HMO ""at risk"" plan she had.  I accompanied my grandmother to her physician, explained I understood his reasoning for not recommending the surgery and asking him to reconsider or I would take her case to the state board.  She received the surgery and turned 108 in December 2017.  The new hip has lasted 20 years."
1	I had done some reading about medical robotics before I actually saw any actual footage. So when I looked at the footage, I was able to identify what tools and what process was being done. It was fascinating to see what I had only beforehand read about in front of me.
1	Recently a close friend was exhibiting symptoms of the flu, but thought that it might just be a cold. I asked to take their temperature, as I know that the big difference between the flu and a cold are a fever.
-1	I was in a motorcycle accident and shattered my vertebra . I was on medications and had to follow and set up how much and when to take the meds. Also had to deal with insurance papers. 
-1	I think when you see problem you should go to hospital or doctor.The deep lesson is that civil servants always have to behave civilly at the office and in the community where the leader needs to be exemplary.
-1	A experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health was when I was in college, I was on the Track and field sprint team. Yes I was fast but, at times I would feel sluggish compared to my teammates. So I realized the reason was because I was not eating correctly, so I went to a nutritionist that taught me how to do so.
-1	I could write a novel here.  There is no one experience, rather a conglomeration of them, from dealing with ill large and small livestock and dogs in a farm setting where the vet leaves you with drugs and iv's to make judgement calls and administer yourself,  to having many of my own injuries to being a caregiver for both parents, to breaking my own neck.  I am, sadly, very wise to the obvious workings of the human body, from how it responds to colds to cancer and 3rd degree full thickness burns.  When I make a judgment call on a medical issue I am usually, but not always right, be it for myself, or another.
-1	a time is when my niece was choking and I asked my sister in law if they had a bulb to take the mucus out of my baby niece 
-1	Since my car accident a few years ago, I have had to keep fairly well informed of the procedures and medications that have been administered to me for treatment. Nothing can be taken for granted these days, including your own well being. 
1	I was an EMT during my college years. One of our calls was for a passed out man who smelled of alcohol. I suspected diabetes and called in my suspicion on our way to the hospital. My suspicions were correct based on hospital records however we did not treat with meds for diabetic shock.
1	I went to school for exercise science/ kinesiology. I had to pass a lot fo exams for that honor and I learned basic healthcare knowledge. 
1	The last time I had a respiratory infection, (5 years ago) I monitored my temperature closely, covered my mouth during coughs and sneezes, and followed my doctor's treatment plan.
-1	I had an ultrasound on my uterus. The results came back showing a mass. I had another ultrasound done. I went to the same doctor and then I went for a second opinion. The first doctor told me to wait for six months and we would do another ultrasound to compare. The second doctor talked to me about the image and the mass and suggested surgery. I went to the second doctor.
1	I don't consider myself to be especially knowledgeable in health or medical issues. I have general knowledge in the areas of nutrition from a class I took in college. I try to choose healthier options when I go grocery shopping because of that like ground turkey over ground beef. I know sitting for extended periods of time is bad for you, so I try to get up and walk around every hour or so (I work an office job). In terms of medical problems I have gone straight to the doctor for a mole that started to look abnormal because I know that can mean cancer. For the most part I just try to make sure I take all preventive measures and get all required tests for my gender and age group.
1	Almost every instance I can think of demonstrates my *lack* of knowledge, so this is a hard question. But I've kept my husband alive through 30 years of a still-undiagnosed progressive neuromuscular disorder (he was diagnosed at first with ALS, and it looks a lot like that). I've taken him to emergency for what's turned out to be pericarditis, and for TIAs. I talk to his doctors. He's still alive, so there's that.
1	I had a script incorrectly filled at a pharmacy one time.  They accidentally gave me a different milligram strength than the one I was prescribed.  I demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues by identifying that the pills were not as prescribed, and having the error corrected. 
1	One event in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I was diagnosed with Glaucoma. My previous knowledge of the condition helped me to understand that it can be treated with several different types of eye drops to lower the ocular pressure.
1	I was talking to one of my friends and he was mad his insurance quit paying for his crestor and forced him to start taking another drug (I'm sure it was atorvastatin). He told me he needed to get a massage because he has a personal trainer and his muscles felt sore and weak. I asked him if that was normal or did it just start recently. I asked if it started around when his insurance stopped paying for crestor. He said now that you mention it, it did! I said it is probably your new cholesterol drug because statins have a tendency to cause muscle weakness or aching. So his doctor filled out a prior authorization detailing the effect of the drug they recommended and he went back to his crestor and the muscle issues went away. 
-1	"My father passed away last year after a unexpected medical issue. My husband and I being the only medically knowledgeable parts of the family were able to ask about his liver and kidney status and brain function. We also understood what the outcome was with him being placed on the ventilator and the ""reflexes"" he was exhibiting where as my other family members took it as signs that he would be better when he wasn't going to."
1	I looked up information online on how to do some basic exercises. I have not been physically fit for a while and wanted to try to be active again.
-1	I take the time to discuss my health with my doctor. I also see my nurse clinic each month for a BP check. My health website has a lot of information on wellness and preventive care.
-1	I worked in the field of HIV care and treatment in many years. I was most confident in reading testing reports regarding one's CD4 count and viral load counts. I was also most comfortable in anti retroviral medications prescribed by physicians in my clinic.
1	When friends of mine are mixing recreational drugs, I can tell them if that is relatively safe or not. For example, I make sure my friends never combine 2 or more GABAergics.
-1	Five years a go I went in for a checkup because I kept feeling dizzy. So I went in for blood work and other tests. Come to find out that I had high cholesterol so my doctor told me what I needed to do or if I wanted to take some medications. That was the time I learned more about health and what precautions I needed to take. So I started to pay more attention to my health.
-1	Well as a friend jumped on a trampoline, they started to feel funny in their back. So they told me to take a look at it and her spine was curved so I told her what it was and that jumping wasn't the best for it.
1	Years ago my aunt was diagnosed with chronic leukemia.  She had a doctor at a different hospital who at one time he just didn't know what to do with her. Shortly after that I read an article about a new drug called Glevic to treat this and that people who were dying in hospices were getting uup and walking out.  I talked to the Head of oncology and he advised which oncologist she should see.   She lived 10 more years.
1	often times when I have a non-medical emergency I simply take care of the injury or illness myself. most of my knowledge has come from past experience and some actual education. this in turn gives me the ability to handle most small medical problems that I encounter throughout my life. Some of the more severe actions I have often look for assistance from another person close by. I often times diagnose myself or use the internet to try and find a common cure or how to treat an injury. I feel that my experience and knowledge is always growing, regardless of what I have known in the passed
-1	i explained to a friend that HVP can be contracted by simple skin to skin contact.  It was a quick expaination but a lot of people seem to think that you can only get it from sex.  However, that was not the case and I had to explain that to a friend who thought it was a myth.  
1	Last week I had pink eye, I know like many, the medical term is conjunctivitis, I knew it had viral and bacterial forms (and found out allergic as well). I knew that an antibiotic could help if it was bacterial in nature and over the counter medicines could treat the symptoms. I knew that the secretion that comes with pink eye is typically called discharge. I knew the cornea was the part of the eye that shows irritation. And some other stuff you get the idea.
1	One day i seen an old person was about to fall and i rushed to him to hold him but he fall down. then some other people tried to help him get up i told them we should not let him up we don't know if he has any broken bones. then i tried to see if he has broken bones pressing on his bones and asking if he has any pain. then we let him sit in well chair.
1	An experience in my life where I had knowledge of a medical issue was when I was coaching a family member on how to eat healthier.  This family member is obese and at risk for diabetes, so it was time to make a change. We came up with a better meal plan; cutting out a lot of sugar and adding more protein, fruits, and vegetables.  We also came up with an exercise plan, where my family member joined a gym and went multiple times a week. He lost a lot of weight and felt a lot better overall. His blood test numbers improved at the doctor.
1	One time in life that demonstrated my knowledge about medical issues is when I made a home remedy to kill my cold. I use peroxide, lemon juice,  baking soda,  and some salt.  I was able to get rid of my cold  more quicker than I have ever expected.  This was one time in life that I demonstrated my knowledge in medical issues;  and it helped me to get rid of my cold.
-1	There was a time that my son was having little red bumps and itches all over his body and fever right away I Soum that it was chickenpox two to my prior knowledge being that my goddaughter had it the year prior
-1	When my husband had a heart attack 6 years ago, he struggled to understand some of the terminology used for the procedure that was required to rectify his issue, as well has the disease that was causing his issues. 
1	I was diagnosed with Wolfe-Parkinson-White syndrome. This condition results from an extra electrical pathway in the heart that causes the blood being pumped to go into a loop and results in a very rapid heartbeat. I found out much information about the condition and decided that it was safe to live with it as long as it only occurred occasionally. When it started occurring more frequently and I passed out, I had it checked out and had an ablation procedure done to correct the short-circuit. I read up on the procedure to get as much information as possible before deciding to go ahead with the surgery.
1	My young daughter gets constant ear infections.  I know how to treat them and avoid them at this time and to take her to the doctor.
-1	 when I was in college my first choice  to go to into the medical field along the way i changed my mind hiw ever i took some mefical courses thats why i have some knowledge
1	A good friend was planning to use alternative remedies (magic chanting, and smelling things, and thinking good thoughts) instead of getting actual medical treatment, and I implored her to use real medicine instead of wishing for a wizard to cure her.
-1	I WOULD SAY WHEN MY DAD WAS DIAGNOSED WITH CANCER SINCE I HAD WORKED IN THE HEALTH FIELD I KNEW ALOT OF WHAT THEY WOULD TELL HIM AS FAR AS DIAGNOSIS AND MEDICATIONS. ALL I HAD WORKED WITH AND STUDIED HELPED ME UNDERSTAND MORE FULLY. 
1	I made the decision not to terminate a pregnancy even though there was a high risk of genetic abnormality because I did a lot of research and questioned the statistics provided by the doctor
-1	I was able to self diagnose myself routinely for strep throat and brochitis because of being sick constantly as a child. I have had it over and over again in my life so I recognize when teh symptoms set in and how to deal with them befor seeing the doctor
1	I have worked in the medical field and nutrition as a patient coordinator for about 9 years. I have worked around doctors for a long time and my mother was a nurse. I was able to read my own labwork and then determine what I should adjust in my diet to be a little healthier, and it worked.
-1	Just learned it through the experiences when I went to see my primary care physician. Learned new things every time I go there for a visit. 
1	When my dad had a stroke he was also diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. I was his primary caregiver while he recovered. I educated myself about diabetes and helped manage his diabetes. I prepared his meals and counted his carbs since he was on a carbohydrate limited diet (about 60 g of carbs/per meal). Within a few months the healthy diet resulted in weight loss and a significant reduction in insulin needs. 
1	I once got an abnormal pap smear.  The doctor started to draw basic cells on a wet mount slide to explain it to me until I started laughing because I had a Masters in biology.
1	I am usually able to have a coherent back and forth conversation with my doctor. Meaning, When my doctor talks to me about even new things in medicine, I usually have already read about it enough to have a conversation with her about it. Recently we discussed how the gut is very much related to anxiety and how we eat is a chain reaction to anxiety. 
1	I had to get an ear drum surgery a couple years back due to a small hole in my right ear which was causing very frequent ear infection., and after my through research and doctor visits, I decided to get the surgery as I figured out that the risk was very low and the surgeon success rate was over 97%. Based on my experience it was very smooth and very successful operation, now I don't have any problem with my ears, I haven't had any ear infection since then. Net net most of the things I have learned, during my research and doctor visits, such as possible side affects, and the timing of recuperation etc. were in line with what I expected.
1	I experienced knowledge of health issues by reading mom's health records/etc. while in the hospital and helping her understand it. It made me feel like I was being useful.
1	I am able to keep and maintain our company first aid and emergency supplies, and have provided first aid in emergencies until first responders could step in.
1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my son was small.  He had chronic bronchitis, as diagnosed by the doctor.  It got to the point where I instantly knew what to do to treat him, rather than take him to the doctor every time he got sick with bronchitis.  We had a standing prescription for his breathing machine.
-1	i don't have any knowledge on health or medical issues because its not often i have to go to the doctor.
-1	there has not been an experience  that demonstrated my knowledge of any medical issue that I have had
-1	Regular doctor visits and follow up with my doctor. I am not afraid of needles, mammograms , cat scans or exrays. Therefore I am always willing to visit the doctor.
-1	Take care of my health and not eating too many salty food, exercise more drink a lot of water, follow doctors order 
-1	My dad had an heart attack at age 40 and he had to have heart surgery. It was then that I researched what it took to have a healthy heart. 
-1	Went to the doctor and was feeling real bad and found out that I had high blood pressure and they gave me medicine to cure it
-1	There's no experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have no knowledge or been through any medical issues 
-1	I have asthma and I knew to get my breathing under control I needed a breathing treatment and steriods
1	Every time I decide if I want to see a specialist, I need to go my insurance website and try to understand the medical jargon listed there
1	I have made a decision based on research and knowledge of my family history to not take statins because of the risk of liver disease.  
-1	I have never had any health issues  in my like I have a pretty good health conditions  but I stay caught up with appointment  to make sure I'm always good
1	When I explained to someone that the bacteria that causes chlamydia also causes, ring worm, jock itch, and yeast infections. 
-1	I needed a surgery for a back surgery and I knew someone that went through the same procedure. I did rely on them for support and asked them questions about the tests and procedure.
-1	I am a colon hydrotherapist and did a lot of studying.  My specialty is holistic health care.  I am still learning.  This survey deals more with numbers and that was a little puzzling to me but I hope I passed.  Thanks a million.
1	I have had a few experiences that demonstrated my small knowledge of health or medical issues. They mostly involved me clarifying information for others that didn't understand what their doctors were telling them.
-1	I had a  pancreas problem that is how I know about health and medical issues. And I also know what to do and not to do
-1	When I was told that i had to have a neck fushion and then another and another and right now because of it I have no feelings in my neck at all
-1	I was coming down with a cold and i had symptoms of a cold. My nose was running. I had a cough and sneeze so i took some mucinex.
-1	when I had to help a loved one who had gastritis.I followed the doctor's advice,researched online, and applied what I knew.The person recovered.
-1	I have scoliosis but because it's never been explained to me treatments I still have it With no knowledge of how to cure it
1	An experience that demonstrated my health/medical knowledge was when a nurse told me I should get a vaccine, which I had learned in class was a weakened virus that helps to develop immunity
-1	I had a cyst on my breast so that would be considered a false positive. After reseaeching and finding out what that mean I had a better understanding.
-1	seeing and hearing relatives paas away and the percentage of these studies but doesnt eqauate this is the real mpeople who depend on these findings
-1	I don't have much knowledge of my health or medical issues because there is still a lot that I still need to learn. 
-1	I often get routine check ups anually, I also have mammograms taken on a yearly basis, didn't really understand why the question on this particular session of the survey 
-1	There hasn't really been a time. I acted as a nurse for an aunt. She was having sweats but she was also cold at the same time. I took her bloood pressure and checked her sugar levels until first responders got to her 
-1	Every month, I have monthly labs. I understand my numbers forwards and backwards. I understand where my phosphorus, potassium, etc needs to be at all times.
-1	I have had friends trying to lose weight and there were plenty of things I knew about nutrition facts. I was able to help them diet efficiently 
-1	My knowledge of healt my knowledge of Hell comes from my personal experience. My knowledge of healt my knowledge of health comes from watching TV shows like dr. Oz and the doctors. Menards also comes from books and other materials from the hospital given by the doctors or nurses.
-1	I needed to check my iron intake. So in each vegetable cans That i took that day, I check the iron percentage and I calculated the amount I was taking. 
-1	I have not had any diagnosis this crap in them exercise out thereI don't know what to say I don't have them them out of my arm now with Jake up America issue
1	I dunno... just recently I had a thing on my skin. I was able to recognize that it was outside of the sphere of my knowledge, so I sought the opinion of an expert. Knowing what you DON'T know is just as important as knowing what you DO know.
-1	I was having severe gastro problems. I could not get relief with over the counter medicine. I was constantly vomiting, and had to call someone to take me to the hospital. I have a case of Gerd, neiumx was my only relief, as well as changing eating habits.
-1	I had a fellow church member who was describing the fact that the medicine that they were taking made them cough. I remembered a previous article that I read that described that the medicine produced coughing in black women. I told her about the article that I read. 
1	I have a son with a medical condition. I thoroughly did my own research, presented it to the pediatrician who then diagnosed my son with the condition that I had suspected after examining him. 
-1	The experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of a medical issue was when my mom was diagnosed with lung cancer i tried my best to learn all there was about the treatment
-1	Many years ago when experienced having high blood pressure for eating bad food. The doctor explained to me that I had to change the way I eat, or there will be other risks such heart attack. I initially took action and took the doctor advice.
-1	I have had no significant health issues so I am unsure I can answer the question appropriately                                                                                                   
-1	Free healthcare. That's how I demonstrated. I petitioned. I voted. Still don't understand why healthcare USB universal. 
-1	Being able to take my own blood pressure, being able to read my medical test results without help, understanding the medical terminology presented for specific health issues or knowing where to find out what it means
-1	I have problems with my back I'm in severe pain 80% of my daily activities no matter how much medication I take it still does control the pain not even if I control my stress or blood pressure.
-1	I can't really think of any concrete examples, but I usually have those moments when I find out something is wrong with my mom.
-1	What my hey eh to be a good day at work and the rest of your day been and stuffed up and I will be there in a few minutes late to the gym now so I'll just get it in a couple more weeks to see the email from my account and I will be there in about an hour
-1	My breast was hurting deep down in every time i swept the floor. so i went in to see the doctor. and he couldn't feel any lumps in my breast,  so he sent me for a mammogram and it showed i  had a tumor that was benign.
-1	I have had hypertension for several years now and I have learned that with a change in my diet, proper rest  and simply take a nice walk has the ability to actual lower my blood pressure therefore lowering my medication.
-1	I actually gave someone CPR when they past out while working out at the gym. When the ambulance came I was informed that I saved the person's life.
1	I am aware of medical issues because when the doctor gives me a diagnosis I know what is going on with my health I can take the appropriate action to make myself get better. For instance when I had a condition, I went to the doctor voicing my concerns. I took a diagnostic test. The doctor interpreted the results. I asked questions. I took the proper steps and obtained medication to get better.
-1	i found my brother un responsive at home, i immediately checked pulse , blood sugar and blood pressure to find that his blood sugar was low, gave him some ketchup to bring up while await for insulin.
-1	deppresion it was really tough it took a while to get over that i really went totally crazy at the tine
-1	I haven't had a moment that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues. Maybe in the future I'll have the moment to show my expertise.
-1	I haven't had any medical expenses except for the flu once. I have basically been very healthy so far.
-1	A MAN FELL OUT IN A STORE, HE STARTED SHAKING AND I KNEW THAT HE WAS HAVING A SEIZURE. I DID KNOW HOW TO DO CPR, I KNOW OF IT. SO I TOLD THE PEOPLE WORKING IN THE STORE TO CALL AN AMBULANCE.
1	I have worked in a pharmacy as a clerk and an ER as a registration clerk. I have suffered many illnesses
-1	When getting a colonoscopy I understand what I had to do before to prepare. I understand the procedure and any diagnose. I knew the possibilities of my colonoscopy coming back abnormal.
-1	I had a leg injury. My lower leg was in pain. I tested it to see if I could walk and if anything was broken. I treated the pain, soreness and swelling to begin the healing process.
-1	I can't think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my health knowledge not like this. I have never been in a situation like this where I would have to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	My allergies.  I am able to determine when the allergy season starts and ends.  I know to start taking my medicine before the season is full swing.  I also know to wear sunglasses to keep pollen out of my eyes and to wash or rinse hair and clothing and change pillow cases.  
1	I self diagnosed a plodial cist from web md. Figured out how to solve the issue without setting foot ana doctors office
1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my doctor first told me about my condition. He asked me if I knew what was going on in my body and I was able to correctly tell him.
-1	I was told I had very high cholesterol and need medication when the number on the test show that I was only borderline.   The reading professional clearly did not read the result of test.  I did not take the medication.  Retook test a week later, cholesterol number was down my 7 numbers.  
-1	I have had 9 surgeries rt foot, rt knee, lt knee, rt hip lt hip rt hand 2x fingers rt hand small finger rt wrist . I also have rheumatiod arthritis and get bimonthly infusion to treat. I see primary care doc rheumatologist dermatologist ob/gyn ent
-1	my mom used to be a nurses aid and i tried to learn some of the things she was learning while at work but i`m older now and dont remember much of what she taught me
-1	I know that to have a baby boy I had to keep my body alkaline, along with other things, I did that my whole pregnancy and I had a boy. My doctor didn't believe me
1	I had to have my gallbladder removed. I already knew that the bile would just go into the intestine rather than be stored. 
-1	As i previously mentioned, independently researching my suggested medications, in this case birth control and deciding not to have an IUD implanted or take the most popular option of the pill, instead I chose the arm implant with the fewest size effects and highest effectiveness.
-1	I think when I diagnose myself with OCD because I knew the symptoms and saw a television show about people with similar compulsive disorders
-1	When I was diagnosed with a thyroid condition. I had to have a biopsy because of the calcification of my nodules. Thank God my biopsy came back and I did not have cancer. But that made me research more on my thyroid condition.
-1	One time I went to the doctor because I thought that I had breast cancer and I realized that I had really sensitive skin and had to stop using certain soaps and lotions
-1	An experience  that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues  was when my daughter had symptoms of an ear infection a second time and I was able to tell the doctor that it was an ear infection.
-1	When i was diagnosed with a cyst on my ovaries i was a little worried about it ending up as cancer. I had little to no knowledge about it.
-1	Don't really recall a situation where I had this experience everything has been pretty much regular 
-1	There was no moment in my life where I had to knew these things it even strived to know these things
1	In the eight grade I had a friend who experienced epileptic seizures. He had a seizure in class before. From my knowledge of seizures I realized someone had to hold his tongue because there was a possibility he would choke on it because of the seizure.
-1	I have four children who have some type of thyroid disease. I diagnosed my third child with the disease because he had lost a considerable amount of weight, was having chills and digestive problems. He was away at college but when I saw him I knew what was wrong with him because of the weight loss and large mass under his neck.
-1	There hasn't been very many situations in my life where I had to rely on my own health knowledge at all.
-1	When i hurt my arm and it was bleeding real bad. i had to stay calm as possible or i would have went in shock and died if i didnt.
-1	I haven't really had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	My grandmother had cancer and I relate a little more with her illness to see it deteriorate little by little.. 
-1	When I cut my knee and blood was rushing out I knew how to cover it up and make sure it wasn't infected. That is about my only expereince where I did something myself
-1	I deal with maysthenia gravis and thyroid disease I have a lot of knowledge about my conditions and not question to ask.
-1	I can't think of any at the moment. Most of my visit have been uneventful. Nothing special to share.
-1	I was knowledgeable about health issues when I started experiencing difficulty with sensation in my hand it was the first and only time I ever experienced tendinitis. It made me feel helpless because with my job I use my hands often I would never want to experience that ever again.
-1	I had an experience with digestion of dairy products. I had to have the knowledge to explain my symptoms.
-1	One time I get getting dizzy when I stood up to fast...I thought maybe it was high blood pressure...there is lot of that in my family history..so i was very familiar with the condition...went to the doctors and i was right
-1	I spent a summer in a program in the Medical Preceptor Program.  I got to view a cadavir and spent a lot of time in the emergency room observing treatment and diagnosis under the guidance of the emergency department staff.
-1	I can not think of any off hand , maybe just washing  hforr house hoands, and using bleachld cleaning
-1	I haven't had any health issues in the major part of my life because I try to do healthy things try to eat healthy be healthy do things healthy.
-1	having a liver transplant was amazing I learned how the liver works and what cause my to fail. lerned a lot about diease of the liver and how to avoid some.
-1	constantly feeling the need to pee and having an urgent need to pee. but when going to the bathroom, very little comes out. i knew i had an UTI
-1	my 6 yr old daughter had tonsil stones and i dianose her before i took her to the ear nose and throat doctor and he said thats what they were.
-1	In 2006 I was diagnosed with degenerative disc disease and Type 2 diabetes; both of these conditions were life-changing events, ie: having to have a lamenectomy to correct spine damage, and to relieve pain -- since my diabetes diagnosis I have been on an array of medications (including insulin) some of which I never thought would be *necessary* to take, and, for which I am disappointed that these medications will beb*forever* necessary, in order to live as healthy a life as possible...
-1	Having to deal with my autistic child and finding the best medical assistance for him,  also when I was pregnant with my both kids. Being pregnant for 9 consecutive months and giving birth naturally. Very overwhelming experience 
1	When I had episodes of passing out suddenly in daytime I thought that I was getting diabetes and sought various diets before going to the doctor. So far the tests didn't find elevated sugar levels
-1	I'm not going oute you at work the pantry working the pantry and sexy you at work you can meet up cutie I can put the cards and we are the rest to you guuj you about all
-1	I have no idea about my health when dealing with doctors.  Tjey listen but do not tell what the possibilities are about my health.  Smdh! 
-1	I have had bladder pain and frequency for many years that went undiagnosed until I did my research and requested specific tests that confirmed the condition I suspected I had all along.
-1	In gym class from elementary to high school, students learn about health. In math and science we also learn how to solve problems and figure out our health.
-1	I have had an abnormal papsmear in my younger age and had to have a coloposcopy.  Having this resulted in me having premature births and having to have a cerclage
-1	I feel if I diet and exercise I could control my sugar.  I am doing hat I supposed to eat. Trying to be healthy 
-1	Anatomy class senior year of high school, I studied many medical issues of variouus different natures.
-1	I had to figure out when I needed to make an appointment for the obgyn at the right age. I realized I need led to go before I was 22. I also check my heart rate because my heart used to beat fast even when resting.
-1	one day I was sick and I was able to find out how sick I was because I was sick and I didn't know I was until i got better.
-1	I studied anatomy and physiology in college.  That was many years ago but I still read many articles online to keep up with the latest news about health and nutrition.
-1	when I had surgury on my hand and follow the information what to do and how to do what was needed to get better and live a normal life.
-1	You always expecting to be the first to say things about it and all of them have to be a great service and they will not really do it or not because I know it enough to say it 
-1	Studying biology in college we had a focus on sickle cell anemia. This was a thorough two week study with an essay that was due at the end as well 
1	One of my sibilings spent about 3 months in the hospital and I have learned so many terms and phases.
-1	Having high blood pressure and having low iron.Having some side effects of some medicines.See that there is a high risk of some diseases by certain people.
1	"I was diagnosed with an ""incurable"" disease and recommended a series of hormones, sterioids, creams, and drugs. I opted not to take them and literally spent 10 years researching my condition. My diligence and decision to operate outside the norm resulted in me having a depth of knowledge on health and diet as well as reversing my ""permanent"" ""irreversible"" condition. "
-1	It was just a lot of arithmetic. Proportions and percentages, and such. There was really no need to know medical information, as long as I could do the math it was fine. 
-1	AM NOT SO SURE BUT POSSIBLE RE-TELLING MY MEDICAL HISTORY TO A NEW DOCTORS IN A NEW COUNTRY. THAT ABOUT ALL
-1	i dont really know. i dont like these math questions thoughh because its not my strong suit but i think i did pretty well
1	Every night, I take prescribed eye drops to keep the pressures in my eyes low. I understand that if I do not apply the medication every night, my pressures will remain high. If my pressures remain high, I will lose peripheral vision at an advanced rate.
-1	I'm only 29. I can't recall any situation that would have demonstrated this other than nt determination to exercise and live a heart lifestyle. 
-1	years ago I developed an unshakeable cough. my knowledge of health issues prompt me to see a doctor as soon as possible. I realized that such a cough is a sure sign of some sort of infection. sure enough I was diagnosed as having tuberculosis.
-1	The first really big medical issue was having a c-section with my first child.The doctors explained how much safer it was for me and the baby. The baby would of died or had major problems if I had not done this.
-1	Nutrition and fitness taking care of myself and my wellbeing living a healthy lifestyle every day changing routines 
-1	I take my own, my mother's blood pressure at home. I have worked as a CNA and am aware of the ideal pressure:  120/80.
-1	I don't have a moment like that. I always asked questions about what I didn't understand. There was a moment when I was told I had high cholesterol and didn't understand the numbers.
-1	I know about health when I was in school so all my knowledge I learned grew through out my life so I always have to stay healthy.
-1	when my aunt was diagnossd with cancer i knew a lot about how to change her diet and how she need to elimiate sugar because cancer loves sugar 
-1	I have been sick, I have had sick children, and my husband has been sick. I have been to the doctor's office and hospital with my family. I have done research and well. 
-1	When I had avr surgery and had to take classes on caring for myself, having a proper diet and how to take the medication
-1	While working at the pharmacy and a patient asked me what they're medication was for and the side effects it could have
-1	This section sucked. I understsnd medical things but i was not prepaird for a math test. But i think i have a good enough understanding of medical issues
-1	That's like a test.. I haven't experienced anything that required these kibd of questions.. I guess maybe I do need help and not understand..
-1	I recently was told I had a vitamin d defieniency. I had to take a mega dose for six weeks and will have to take a high dose supplement for the rest of my life. 
1	A few years ago I was diagnosed with fibromyalgia. My doctor wanted to prescribe pills that I did not want so I did research to make lifestyle changes
-1	My son had fienre I measured the temperature and had 100, 8 degrees f and call the doctor and told me that it's a good thing I call him because it is dangerous. So if I have knowledge of reading medical papers
-1	When my son was diagnosed with attention deficit hypertension disorder. I was pretty familiar with the disorder and was actually able to know my son had the disorder prior to going to the doctor for the proper diagnosis
-1	I really cannot think of any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health issues that's why I rely on my doctors for guidance.
-1	This survey is not a good indicator of someone's knowledge of health issues as much as how good they are at math. I got frustrated so much that I quit answering the questions with effort because I am not good at percentages and long division with pen and paper. This was not very smart to do people who taking your survey. 
-1	One day I ran out of my meds for two days and thay wouldn't give me any pills for two days I had a bad stomach ache and had cold and hot flashes and that was good at all for me
-1	i haven't  has an experience that I demonstrated knowledge bout health or.medical issues . there's nothing in my life if any I research about it to understand it more
-1	I have never had an experience where my test results were read wrong or that I was told the wrong thing. 
-1	I took classes in the medical field. I am also interested in the medical and curious about all aspects of the medical field.
-1	I never had none in my life. So i wouldn't know. But im sure plenty of family  have. I don't know about it 
-1	I have had sugar issues since 2013. I have had to take my blood and test it. I have had to manage what I eat daily. I have had to exercise  more.
-1	When I was diagnosed with a tumor weighing over 5 pounds and was crushing my lung and affected my breathing 
-1	My knowledge of healthcare is good and interesting as most of their findings can be linked to family history.
-1	When i had to help a friend get their insulin. Another time was when i did cpr on someones kid when they were drowning.
-1	I would have to say that I have been somewhat blessed with good health; I have only been to the hospital for childbirth and have only had occasional colds. The only experience that comes to mind is after the birth of my second child, I experienced a great deal of weight gain and I was close to my mid thirties. Unfortunately, I am still fighting this battle due to increasing age, menopause, muscle atrophy  bad diet habits and a host of other social factors. I have stabilized my weight a great deal by making major changes in my diet; which includes reducing sugar, caffeine and adding healthy oils.It looks like it is going to be a lifestyle change, but it is going well so far.
-1	I demonstrated knowledge when I had to learn about my asthma and what I can do to control this by taking my medicine it will help me
1	I do not really have experience in my life concerning health or medical issues. i often do rely on other or bank on others for their help
-1	Had pain in center of chest along with lost of appetite and throwing up & suspected a heart attack and it was
-1	my knowledge of medical issues relate direct to me. I know to eat healthy when I pregnant or I will have gestational diabetes again. I know to watch my sugar intake or I will have love handles again, etc.
-1	A friend of mine has epilepsy and she informed me that is she ever has a attack to just lay her flat and allow her to come out of it on her own. Just to make sure she doesn't hit her head or land too hard 
-1	I got a lower back injury on the job & now i have a bad back. The doctors basically only care about the money as well as the lawyers. They don't check up on me any at all. I only go for therapy & thats it. 
-1	Took care of my grandmother who had dementia and currently take care of my mother who has had multiple surgeries is on dialysis has kidney disease and has had several strokes
-1	I am aware that the hat I am suppose to eat healthy, exercise , drink plenty of water, get routine check ups, Pap smear and mammograms 
-1	My mom had asitma we had to do alot when having an attack hold her head up administer her medicine sometimes take her to hospital 
-1	My health has not been good over the past couple of years like it was 10 or 20 years ago and that worries me to the fact that I must start to take care of myself. 
-1	I have had no expierence that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues yet but maybe in the future i will
-1	I have worked as a pharmacy technician for about 4 years in a retail setting and in a hospital. I had many opportunities to ask questions to nurses, doctors and pharmacists about different procedures and medications 
-1	A nearby death experience for when I got my big toe amputated from having staph infection and almost being near death.
-1	"in the last three years I have  had an appendix removed, 6"" of intestine and a gallbladder. Because of all these emergency surgeries I ask more questions than usual when it comes to my health"
-1	I guess just knowing better and not believing all the bullshit the doctors or these so called higher power people that try to gain the world. Yeshua always has the last word.
-1	Can't remember a specific time. Can't answer this question at all. Next question please. Sorry. ....
-1	I had an experience at my Gyno and I needed to educate her on my birth control regimine by understanding how much I take and how often
-1	I am getting fed up with all these questions and percentages. but im doing it for points. I guess this is what its going to take.
-1	Well, i was diagnosed of having asthma at a young age. But i feel like i haven't had a problem in years. Last time was probably middle school, so asthma really does go away with age
-1	I really haven't had any experiences like that.  The only ones I can come up with is understanding when a medical or health issue was being explained to me.
-1	I suffer from anxiety. So I'm more in tuned with my body and my medical issues. I always think I'm having a heart attack when I'm not (in which my heart's been checked out and I'm fine).
-1	I have experienced a time when I was coughing and headaches and feeling nausea...the conclusion was that I had the flu.
-1	When I got diagnosed with HPV I didnt know what to do. I was told about a risk for cancer and I panicked. I had to research for signs to see if I have ovarian cancer then my mom encouraged me to call the nurse to ask further questions. She calmed my nerves. Then I got a colposcopy and the doctor didnt see anything. I was less scared but also more worried about passing to along to someone. This is when I did further research. Now I'm just waiting on 2 years for the virus to disappear. 
-1	I  dont really know what your asking me at this time I cant think of anything very sorry knowing comes to mind
-1	wrong number and get blocked in the actual world of outlaws and get blocked in the actual world of outlaws and get blocked in the actual world of outlaws and get blocked in the actual world of outlaws and get blocked 
1	I have relatively mild health issues & dio does the rest of my household so I haven't really come across this kind of situation
-1	During my pregnancies, i learned a lot about my body. It has opened my eyes to my health and being healthy.
-1	when I had my blood sugar taken, I asked the doctor to test for AC1 as well because in the past he has just given a basic blood sugar test which was borderline but I believed the AC1 would be a better barometer of my risk for diabetes. 
-1	I don't really have an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues 
-1	Have never been told or been given this kind of info before..............I have no reference on anything like this
-1	a few years ago I broke my arm . the EMTS said it was a sprain. xrays proved that it was broken. a lot of things have been proven wrong by me over doctor's diagnosis in the doctor's office and I have ended up in the emergency room.
-1	In 2007 my mother was diagnosed with skin cancer the doctor removed the cancerous tumor in 2010 the cancer return with a vengeance she pass in January 2011 for three months I took care of my mother by changing her wounds and me starting her medication daily 
-1	In two mammograms, I was required to come back for further testing.  It was determined that I have dense breasts which often cause a false positive reading.  I now expect that to occur whenever I have a mammogram.  I do not get as tense anymore now that I know that my breasts are dense.
-1	Taking class in Middle school and High school for Health. The internet helps me learn things everyday 
-1	The information was very informative and interesting and i also believe it wiil help others as well and also be very helpful in the future as well to others
-1	as far as I can remember- i went to the dentist for a regular check up only to find out that i had two cavities that i was unaware of , was stunned since i floss and clean my teeth like i clean my face- thoroughly
-1	I just took a biology final and there was a section on the test about the human body and i needed to label body parts and know the names of molecule.
-1	I've had meningitis, so I has to get a spinal tap in 1997. In 2005 I had my gallbladder taken out. In 2005 I had another surgery to remove an infection from the removal of my gallbladder. I had surgery on my hand, my mouth. I also think I'm going to need knee surgery soon.
1	I have numerous family members with a variety of health problems. I go to the doctors with them and am able to understand the doctors and explain information to family in ways that are easy for them to  understand 
-1	I am in great health I exercise daily eat a plant base diet and have a positive attitude, I treat people the way I want to be treated 
-1	I have IBS and my doctors wanted to put me on a medication that had bad side effects. My prior knowledge of this medication caused me to refuse the use of the medication.  The discussion with my doctor lead to the use of an alternative method.
-1	21 To no one has ever had been in a chance on e and thank you wanna leave the browskin out in a chance for the morning to see it on e mail to you wanna breakup of the Soviet us to see you in you in a chance to you in the morning you in you are you are yark doing 
-1	I have had an overactive thyroid every since I was 18 years old. I have been on the pill since them and will have to take a pill for the rest of my life.
-1	Well I read a lot of books and I do a lot of research on the internet. I also ask my doctor a.lot of questions
1	I never had a moment where I needed to demonstrate my knowledge of health, outside of any health class where a test was involved. 
-1	When my auntie died from cancer, I felt like the medicine she was taking made it worse for her. It's like the medicine helped killed her.
-1	I have had to assist in caring for several family members with different health issues. The range in meds to Dr . Appointments were all different.
-1	I really dont know. I have no reason to think about this . I am pretty healty I walk a lot.In my life if you use you wont loss it.
-1	I was in the hospital once for a week straight I was diagnosed with diverticulitis you miss a condition where your stomach intestines are Jagged and it catches food and I had swelling in my intestines and it won't allow me to pass my bowels
-1	Food people or the union we are are the end the end of age as quilt and he wthe people of he united States of the American w em are enjoying end o ag ND people are cool an fun the from ad dmedkdriekde djeirjd. Really Dr fmrkdfmrfi d efkd fjdek to do the trick f f the room and it takes a little bit ago and have the best gym and I underwear is a wonderful and have the the from starving I all that I all good good bank and have the from ad and it shines and have any good bank an an an MD in myo is good good good to the from ad I've and have
-1	I don't really have much experience as far as medical issues but I do know to watch out for any size that going on my body that is abnormal
-1	I don't have much medical issues because I'm a pretty healthy person but I do have a lot of acne and some breakouts. 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrates I am knowledgeable of health and medical issues occurred 10 years ago during a surgery. The medical staff outlined the entire procedure prior to admission.
-1	I have had none I never had to use medication to use so I know nothing about  don't even have insurance so I HAVE NO KNOWLEDGE that is involved in this type of information
-1	I have none right now. If I have any issues I would ask doctor questions on what my concerns are. No issues at this time
-1	when i was told i had type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure and was scared as i dont know what that was not a great experience
-1	I done research on eczema and I found out it was a food allergy and I also did research on ulcers and I found what foods are good for me.
-1	Health issues are solvable as far as getting the right medicines to prevent heart attacks/strokes in the near future
-1	When I was first diagnosed with diabetes I was referred to a class by my doctor there I learned about the disease how to take care of myself how important losing weight is and maintaining a healthy weight can keep the disease controlled......at this time I do not take any medicine for diabetes its been controlled over two years by diet and exercise
-1	I had a bowel blockage ,unable to keep anything down without vomiting, I went to an E R the doctor did a CT scan and said I had small bowel blockage And told me to see my primary care physician on Monday,and sent me home without treating me, for the vomiting or the obstruction, this happened on a Saturday, I went home Sunday morning and went back that same night and was admitted.  
1	My mom had health issues through my life which gave me a lot of knowledge on health and medical issues. I did my research and studied up on the subject.
-1	My sister and mother had cancer and  I spent a significant  amount of time researching the type of  car they had and questions  there Dr on the best care
-1	When my baby's heart beat went down and my blood pressure went up and I  was having hot and cold flashes 
-1	I hat having to worry bout my health cuz its not good to be feeling down all the time i like to be well and energetic
-1	I haven't had major medical issues. Mostly what occurs is I have a cold that turns into an infection which requires antibiotics. My doctor explains why I might be experience symptoms and how the medicine will work. 
-1	I took a health science class my junior year in high school. My aunt is in the health field also so I learn a little from her
-1	I've had a few health classes that taught me a little and of course personal experiences. Just looking around at everyone around me and looking at what they are going through and how they got out of it. Also my mom knows a ton about getting over colds.
-1	I have a lot of knowledge regarding my health and medical issues because I always make sure to ask my physician questions and do research
-1	When I was diagnised with an ectopic pregnancy that needed emergency surgery, I looked up and researched 
-1	Well  don't know that much about all these questions and answers,  did not know I was going to take care test,
-1	Just seeing and hearing about other people's Experiences I have learned so much about health and medical issues
-1	Seeing my dad experience health issues after he was diagnosed with diabetes. And me reading about signs and symptoms.
-1	I have many experiences with medication and classes at college long term care and medication aide was what I went to school for 
1	Every morning I used to throw up from my acid reflex. So i went into the doctor and they prescribed me a pill to help my acid reflex and ever since I listened to the doctor and took the pills my stomach feels a lot better.
-1	I would say it was when I was at my most recent doctor's appointment. The doctor asked about some symptoms that I had and when I started to get them and how long I have had them for
-1	Since my experience is about my high blood pressure and being a border line diabetic all the knowledge of questions helped me to learn my condition much better 
-1	My mom had terminal cancer and I pretty much had to figure out that it was terminal. I did the research though and it took until she went though invasive chemo which was just prolonging the inevitable and which ultimately killed her, that I did the research and figured it out.
1	When I did well in my nutrition class and I got an A- which lead me to understand healthy eating more on my own.
-1	The ability to take medicines and monitor my body's progress and reactions to medicines.bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
-1	I gave no medical knowledge in healthcare or medical issues like these in this survey thus far. Doctors do not explain what is going on in your body and its your body.
-1	Whenever my nephew has a seizure and I have to make sure that he stays safe in the process. And if he does not come out of it on his own and I have to admisinter his medication 
1	I am a registered nurse. I'm very familiar with health and medical issues since I deal with them each day. Each day I explain in layman's terms complicated health or medical issues easily. 
-1	I'm not a professional or an expert I don't know that much or as much as I think I should no. I probably need to look more into it or get more info and be aware.
-1	I demonstrated my medical knowledge during a test in high school. We learned CPR in my health class and I demonstrated how to proceed to receive a certificate
-1	I have lyemphomic leukemia. I was dignosted 2 years ago. it is not to the stage where I have to have treatments. the doctor is keeping a very close eye. but I have learned more than I want to about the symtoms you may or may never have or get. but it makes me aware how fragile we are as we get older and you should read and check out lots of medical problems for your age group whether you ever have anything or not
-1	One time I went to the Doctor my blood pressure was so high. They keep me for observation to see if it would go down and it did. I was just over worked and stressed about losing my dad.
-1	I have been had surgery on my big toes, left boob to remove a ball of fat and on my Achilles. I have learned a little bit of something but it doesn't over qualify me.
-1	had a pain in my side. knew it was a kidney stone and drank  alot of water. then went to the doctor afterwards
-1	Torn hiker hen his. Hedge if we can do that for a few years back on my way home from work to be the first half of the day before I get a follow back on my way home. 
-1	At a young age, I had a a false positive for a mammogram.  What was a lump scar o my turned out to be a cyst. 
-1	When my daughter was 5 Mo old she was diagnosed with sickle cell anemia, and she would have sickle cell crisis that would cause pain in her arms legs and stomach and I learned that whenever the pain started to treat it before it gets bad otherwise she would end up being hospitalized, she was hospitalized at least 3 times a year and finally in 2011 she was given a wrong diagnosis and passed away
1	I experienced heart pallpitations, arm tremors, sweating and a sensation that I was about to faint. I self-diagnosed that I was either experiencing a stroke or heart-related event, immediately took several aspirin with water, sat down and practiced deep breathing while I waited for emergency assistance (911). I was diagnosed after tests as having an Ischemic Stroke and may have saved my own life and/or avoided physically delibitating side effects with the steps that I took.
-1	I like to do research. I always like to know what's going on with my body what am I supposed to do how am I supposed to eat I do research all the time and I when I go to the cleaning I talked to Dr ask all kind of question about how to leave healthy what to eat. What to avoid and how to stay healthy so all kind of knowledge is combined together they can help me understand a lot more done anybody who just assume
-1	Having to make decisions about surgery on my eyes after a doctor told me I was at risk for a retinal detachment. 
-1	When I was younger. I got a very bad sinus infection, I had a very bad h headache, fever, and sinus pressure.they ran all kind of test to figure out what was the problem.. Years later my niece was experiencing the same symptoms, they ran test, car scans and everything else they could think of.  I kept telling them about our family history with sinus problems, they finally listened. And the problem was solved.
-1	Pooling cook travel appreciation is much deeper than your liking for someone. words are dense when trying to show love sometimes physical attraction has a lot of peo
-1	"Simply understanding the difference between HDL cholesterol and LDL cholesterol. This happened several years ago during my routine annual. Until then, I only knew my ""total"" cholesterol level. Since then, I've been successful at lowering my LDL."
-1	Don't worry about a thing because every little thing is gonna be alright . don't mess with me man. Man amongst boys. Things are good. 
-1	After I had surgery procedure, I had to follow up with the doctors orders. I was aboe to follow them without much difficulty or clarification
-1	Noticing that my urine was 100% clear was a clear I doctor that my kidneys were not removing toxins. This was a warning that I communicated to my doctor and immediate he ran tests on me and realized that I was diabetic and my kidneys were comprpmozed
-1	I once went to the ER and they did an EKG and because of m experience as a ekg tech I was able to deduce from the ekg strip that I had an abnormal heart rhythm
-1	A time in my life that I encountered or experience health or medical attention was when I gave birth. I went to the Doctor visits and was given medical attention and  advice on how to eat right and the process of what my body and baby was going through through the various trimesters.
-1	There isn't any but I'm typing in here so I can go forward in this survey.  I guess all my diabetic study may qualify like this 
-1	A family member I know was diagnosed with high blood pressure and nothing they were doing was able to bring it down. I was able to tell them what foods to eat in order to bring it down because I had studied about it earlier.
-1	Oh OK I'm just watching TV n the difference from my right leg is swollen and looking for a second to meet you too Derrick
-1	I have family members that have had many medical stuff and had to have many things done and many medicines to have
-1	I had a severe asthma attack which I was suffacating from the inside.  In ICU for two weeks just to stablize my breathing. Found out a lot more about asthma during that time.
-1	I really don't know what to do nowadays.i need help like God please come and help me.i just need some help god
-1	I was once expose to someone who wanted to take overdose medication and I know the impact of taking overdose medication. It can be death or an increase in illness . I explain to the person the dangers of their action and they seem to listen to me
-1	I have not had the time or even had any kind of thoughts that i was ever in that bad of a position but i have always made sure i would never be put in that situation ever
-1	I had to go to the doctor with my mother when she was diagnosed, asked questions about her prognosis and treatment options 
-1	I am a dietbetic so good measurement is part of my lifestyle to reaching positive health and possibly reducing meds
-1	I went to the doctor once and they informed me of my health issues and tbsy used medical terms that I understood. 
-1	my neighbors child was chocking on a lollipop where i had tho perform cpr on him but his mother couldn't because she had an attachment to her child she could of hurt him rather than save him is always best for a stranger to preform cpr on your love one
-1	when i was having a bowel movement at work i had blood in my had blood in my stool , informed the doctor and they found cancer in my colon 
-1	Told as a teenager that my white blood count was low- always searching to know what that means and how it effects my internal system.
-1	I have only had to deal with medical issues when it came to my children not too.many when it comes to myseld
-1	The only thing I can do is say that the fact that the people who are not in the same way that the people who are not in the same way that the people who are not in their way that it would make any difference. 
-1	Being diagnosed with diabetes. Mine was never out of control but prior to being officially diagnosed I was pre diabetic and I had some of the symptoms including obesity and slightly elevated fasting glucose readings which indicated it. 
-1	While coaching a student's arm began to swell rapidly. As  I observed this I asked him if something happened on his way to school. He informed me he had been stung by a bee. I immediately told him he had to go to go to the hospital  immediately. That he was beginning to have a reaction to a bee sting.
-1	unsure of what you mean , but I didn't go to the Dr for years. Then finally realized that I should not be afraid and to get a check up for preventive care as that was imperative for my well being.
-1	I had to tell my physicians assistant that I might have low blood and the test confirmed that I had become anemic she was non chalant about it though
1	I was talking to another patient in my doctor's office about acupuncture in pregnancy and related issues. Apparently my doctor overheard me, and since then has mistaken me for a doula, since I seemed very informed on pregnancy health options.
-1	I had back pain and tried to figure out what was causing it. I had to use my common sense and basic knowledge of health to inquire that it was probably minor issue.
-1	2 years ago I found out from my doctor that I had kidney stones due to lack of water consumption. I still need to do better each day.
-1	I WENT TO THE HOSPITAL ABOUT TO MONTH AGO BECAUSE I WAS DRINK TO MUCH OF COFFEE AND SODA AND NOT DRINKING ENTHER WATER SO I HAD TO GET MORE FLUID IN MY BODY.
-1	I was diagnosed with osteoarthritis in my right knee.  I am currently under my rheumatologists and paim specialists care.
1	My family history and being interested in the human body and how it functions in general. Also the health concerns in the black community and Americans in general.
-1	My husband always thinks he is having a heart attack, and I have to constantly explain to him what the symptoms are 
-1	Three years ago I had a total hip replacement, during that time I learned a lot about different infections that can be effective prior to the surgery, and must be cleared up. I learned of a medical condition of the mouth called periodontal disease which is an infection of the gums that causes a bad case of plaque build up on the teeth. I had to go through extensive dental visits before my actual surgery to prevent infection in the hip.
-1	I have been a licensed practical nurse for 10 years. So I feel that a moderate knowledge of medical issues as I no longer work in hospitals. 
-1	I always do research online and ask doctors questions if I have concerns or are curious about something.
-1	I have been having problems with my ears bothering me. I have been having pain on and off and it was hard tolerate being outside when it was windy outside. I knew I had to have fluid in my ears that was causing the pain. The doctor confirmed that I had fluid in my middle ears
-1	since i'm on dialysis i know what type of foods to eat and how much fluids i ca drink in a day. i know what to have for snacks and what exercises to do.
-1	I broke out in hives and couldn't breathe. The newest thing added to my routine was a bodywash that turned out to be the problem.
-1	I have raised many of children in my life and I have had to deal with a lot of colds,fevers,and all that goes with it. But the hardest was when my youngest developed asthma.
-1	I had pain in my chest ,I had this before so I went in to be checked realizing that I could potentially have a clot . It turned out I did not . I at least followed my doctor's advice to go be seen right away because of past clots.
-1	I do my own breast exams every month. I check my temperature and I know my body very well. If I feel like something is wrong I do to the doctor 
-1	I have no experience or full knowledge of medical issues. Have not been to see a doctor or gone to the hospital for a while.
-1	When I was pregnant with my daughter I tested positive for gestational diabetes.  I was not able to manage my glucose levels with just diet alone.  About half way throught I was prescribed medication.
-1	I had 3 strokes and In every case it different. I learmed a lot about the differentstrokes and its effect
1	I felt like that was easy enough and that I can know my health and medical issues if i am exposed to them.  I feel like this survey is helping my understanding of all of the health and medically related issues in my life at the moment.
-1	High blood pressure I can't really say because I try to stay healthly by walking and eating better so I don't have any problems
-1	Well there was this one time when after a long run I could not catch my breathe and I could not figure out why. After about 10 mins went by and my chest was still tight and I was still having complications catching my breathe it clicked that I was having an ASTHMA ATTACK. So I crawled to the bathroom dug though the drug cabinet obtained my inhaler and treated my medical issue of tight chest.
-1	You will face different experiences in your life were you will have to demonstrate your knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	An experience that demonstrated my health knowledge was noticing symptoms of my father's new onset of diabetes: urinary frequency and increased thirst.
-1	My family has hypertension and cholesterol issues in it's history.  I started practicing preventive habits in my life, I.e. adjusting my diet, exercising, etc before it might become doctors orders
-1	I really never had any problems with my health or medical problems. I really never visited my doctor about any medical or health related issues. I just visit my doctor about my check ups
-1	When I had to get my wisdom teeth removed, I had to know what effects it would have on me in the future and if it was worth having the surgery in the first place
-1	What demonstrated my health is knowing the medical history of my family andv worrying that in some ways I could have the same findings and that's scary 
1	I helped a family pissibky diagnose the beginning symptoms of blood pressure possibly diabetes. The person had no clue what they were doing so i told them to go the hospital
-1	When I pt was asking questions about IUDs. I was able to tell the patients the pros and cons of IUDS
1	Having to go through the whole disability process to get my benefits I often reviewed my medical records as well as researched their findings. It allowed me to talk with attorney and explain things to judge at hearing.
-1	I really don't know because I haven't been through something like that but I just really don't know and like I said I never been through nothing like that and don't won't to
1	Really not sure how to respond to this question. I guess because sometimes my understanding comes after I've done further research or after I've basically Google something to get a better understanding of it.
-1	I have depression and anxiety. I've had it for almost 10 years. I take medication for both. I've been going to these facilities for at least 3 years
-1	i am focusing on my heath now that i am older so i can live a lot longer. by excessing by walking and eating right i sometimnes indulge not all the time
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I have a cold or the flu I always take home remedies and after a few days I get well.
1	While not a doctor and not a real emergency, often people get nose bleeds and everyone tilts their head back. I tell them you should tilt your head forward so that the blood doesn't go back into your throat and clot.
-1	I never had one so I don't really know what to say lol really I don't know what to say nothing comes to mind
-1	I was going through my second pregnancy and was experiencing some pain and discomfort. After my first pregnancy I realized that I was going through Braxton hicks contractions 
-1	My training in medical billing and coding as well as paying attention to labels when grocery shopping 
-1	i was a care giver for my mom as i become familiar with prescriptions i use a medical dictionary to help me learn names of drugs and side affects it can create to also make the same double amount of drugs are correct or can cause serious side effects
-1	I had to lose a lot of weight because I used to be extremely obese. I learned how to read labels and what type of workouts to do in order to lose weight. I was able to reach my goal weight in a year and a half. 
-1	I graduated with my Doctorate of Physical Therapy and passed my licensure exam and have to read MRIs to patients 
-1	When I was first diagnosed with high blood pressure.  I understood the risk of not taking my meds and all the side effects that could happen with taking the meds
-1	None I don't know of any have not experience have never had issue don't know don't know don't know don't k ow
-1	I got and x ray on my face to make sure no bones was broken from a loading dock fall off my bike it was quick and painless. I was good no broken bones.
-1	i JUST NEED TO DO BETTER BECUSE I FEEL LIKE A FAT ASS AND MY STOMAH IWLL NOT GO DONW BECAUSE I HAVE DIGESTIVE PROBLEMS
-1	Medical issues is a track of john lennon. he live in the sky, but never kill him idea. You can kill the man, bur never kill the idea.
1	Throughout high school I have always been adept at medical related things. I have a genuine interest in the subject so I have always done well. I went to state for HOSA every year that I chose to compete. I also made high marks in my CNA certification class. I am constantly surrounded by the health issues of others which sparks my curiosity so that just leads me to go home and learn even more.
-1	I was with a family member who was hospitalized and the nurse dropped off some forms to be signed. I understood better what the medical terms meant regarding pain medication so I was able to explain what it meant.
1	After finding out that I had some showings of lactose intolerance I was able to apply the knowledge of my health issue to understand what foods I can and can't have
-1	This girl went into a seizure, and I knew to make sure that she didn't either swallow her own tongue or bite it off.
-1	When I was younger I diagnosed myself with having Hyperthyroidism. I went to my Gynecologist with a list of Endocrinologists and asked him which did he think was better. I was later treated and have been on medication every since. I've also diagnosed other illnesses for myself and others.
-1	I've went to college for medical assistant training and my families mental and physical health histories
-1	When I had to get a physical for shots it was a little frightening because normally I don;t like when people stick needles in me
-1	I was hospitalized and had to learn how to take medication. I also had to learn how to take my blood pressure.
-1	I got the flu and I know what I should've dont to get rid off it. I just drank oranger jjuice, and my flue went away. It was that simple. No need to take a trip to the doctors office.
-1	An experience in my life that helped me better understand health issues was when my mom was admitted into the hospital when I was 9... it was a hard time for me and I had to learn a lot real fast 
-1	When I had contacted certain medical ailments, I l conducted research using the world wide web in order to effectively treat said ailment 
-1	Years before the positive effects of antioxidants were common knowledge, I was aware of their effects and ordering them for myself and my family. 
-1	not sure i have had an experience like that maybe when i am discussing working out or nutitrtion with regards to bodybuilding or similar
1	I have osteoporosis.  My doctor went over with me the different types of medicines and how most of them harden the larger bones, but soften the smaller bones such as the jaw bone.  They suggested a drug that renews the bone versus hardening them.
-1	When I took an on line medical billing course and there were end of lesson tests to check knowledge of the subject matter 
-1	I don't like this survey. It is starting to become boring. This is definitely taking too long to complete.
-1	Making sure I'm eating right working out right and keeping a good eye on my health as I go on about my day 
-1	That medications doesn't always work for everyone especially if they have a high tolerance for drugs such as myself 
-1	I have PCOS. I researched the symptoms and talked to my doctor about it. She agreed that I had PCOS and we worked together to identify some lifestyle changes that might help reverse the condition or alleviate symptoms
-1	had an angegram was told i could have some plaque build up or may need stents inserted turned out to be not so, fiat experience  for something like this.
-1	ive never been sick or diagnosed with anything but i have taken test that came out positive and was given so many pills that it drove me crazy
-1	I have not had extensive training in medical issues. Therefore, my knowledge of health or medical is limited at best.
-1	I had a stroke in 2007 that left no outward effects.  Then in 2008, I was diagnosed with Lupus.  I have ongoing medical issues that I have to maintain and could not do so without knowledge of medical issues.
-1	I worked since the age of 19 as a nurse assistance in hospitals private homes prison and nursing home also i worked for hospice plenty of experience 
-1	math skills, trying to figure out if i can ad, divide subtract number or think i can. I think my numbers are screwed to be honest
-1	I know that bad health can make you have bad health so good lifestyles can help you in the long run to stay health
-1	I don't know.   I read WebMD, Google, etc.  I look at the news. I talk to family members.   I read patient testimony. 
-1	I not sure of one instance but when I fill a certain way I know if i have the flu or a common cold. I usually know what medicine I need to take.
-1	Don't really know much about health other than the fact that this survey has questions that seem pointless
-1	I know there are certain check ups annually n there r ways to bring the blood pressure down high cholesterol down I know proper diets
-1	I have hardly ever have had to use my knowledge of health or medical insures to help in any experiences in my life
-1	I went to a endocrinologist who diagnosed me with hypoglycemia. This doctor prescribed byetta. I informed the doctor that byetta is for patients with high blood sugar and he said that is correct. I reminded him that hypoglycemia is low blood sugar. I asked him would I be correct to say by taking this drug would lower my  blood sugar and at that time he said you are correct. He then told me he had forgot that I suffer with low blood sugar.
-1	For the last few years I've been going through a lot with my body and health issues but slowly trying to eat healthy and work out
-1	My mother is a nurse so she tries to keep me informed on what is going on. Also my dad works in a hospital so he is very knowledgeable. 
-1	when i was getting tested for diabetes the first year my number were up a little but through careful eat and supplements went down 25 points
-1	I understand that obesity has severe consequences on your overall health. Heart disease, hypertension, and stroke are a few of the health issues related to obesity
-1	I almost died eating a bunch of cat a dog shit when I was 11 years old , it was a dare and I was tremendously stupid and humiliated . I followed simple directions to recover .
-1	Being diagnosed with diabetes at the age of 23 I had to learn at a young age to manage numbers for my best life long result
1	I am a nursing student so I have to understand lots of medications and what the side effects of those medications are in order to teach patients.
1	I honestly can't think of any. The only time I  ever talk about health or medical issues is during online debates or when a family member asks for my help with some online research. My knowledge is pretty limited. I don't know a lot, but I do know how to find the information when needed. 
-1	I took out my own stitches on my forehead because I didn't want to go to the hospital to get them removed, plus pay to have out of pocket too. Since I previously went to college, graduating in the health field I had the knowledge to remove my own stitches with ease and no difficulties.  
1	A family member being diagnosed with diabetes and a family history of health problems has made me more aware of medical issues 
-1	My blood pressure was highmy doctor reduced by 50%percentage rate.With percentage I have better chance my blood pressure be okay
1	for a nut allergy I know to avoid nuts and to carry and epipen.  Also know if an epipen is not available to take benadryl.
-1	I don't know too to much about my health and medical issues internally. i can describe the symptoms and try to decipher it from there.
-1	When my daughter had a baby I was able to tell her what to exspect and explain things that were goung on. When she got scared I was able to calm her down with cofidence 
-1	My spouse recently have gone through some serious medical issue with an 75 percent chance of survival. We did additional research to see what else we could do to increase his percent. 
-1	I have not had any health or medical issues the would demonstrate my knowledge. The only thing that I have had are the common cold and a twisted ankle.
1	I found blood in my stool and by tracking my symptoms and checking online, I was able to narrow down what could be causing the blood prior to going to the doctor for a check up.
-1	I just had a mammogram I had to go back because  he couldn' see my left breast on the xray all is good. They was doing  it from my wheelchair
-1	Yes!  I visited my Cardiologist a couple years back; he added a new medication in addition to the other 3 prescribed to me by another physician.  I asked him if it would be okay to take all 4 together. He told me i would be fine. No side effects. Atfer taking the new one he prescribed to me on the second day; i had a severe reaction. So; i stopped taking it. Sure enough i started feeling better. When i told him he just lighly brushed the matter aside. Doctors don't always know what's best. 
-1	My mother was diagnosed with depression and needed ECT and medication and monitoring by a psych Dr. I helped her with all of it and addressed the Dr's for her. 
-1	I had ovarian cancer and when i finished chemo i found out I had diabetes type 2.  I also have sleep apnea and suffer from depression.
-1	have bot had any bad experiience so far but have been close to having high choralr once but was told what i had to to do and thats just what i did
-1	When knew a lot the back problems. I knew all about back problems I have and husband has. I am very about those problems.
-1	I really not good with numbers so I Google or call the doctor to ask what it means. The internet helps me to understand things better 
-1	Wheb one of my kids were sick. After taking to the hospital they still didn't know what was wrong. I stayed calm and got the doctor to learn her symptoms.
-1	I had a preemie. I had to learn about every diagnosis, surgery and medicine that they gave him. I have to use my medical knowledge to determine if he needs medical attention.
-1	I am not good at month so my numbers are completely off. Some onewould new to explain it to me very carefully 
-1	I can't think of a situation where I demonstrates knowledge for a situation pertaining to a health issue. 
-1	I was prescribed 1,800mg of a medication 4 times a day. I actually took 600mg 3 times a day. Which was one dose of what was prescribed.
-1	I been admitted to the hospital because I had a diabetes, high cholesterol and high blood pressure so I had to understand my situation well so I can change my life style to have more healthier life 
-1	I haven't had many experiences in my life to demonstrate my knowledge, unless you count having a lady have a seizure in front of me in line. I told the gentlemen to turn her on her side instead of keeping her on her back.
-1	I haven't ever has any questions like these. These are actual medical questions ; something you'd probably find in medic school 
-1	I can think of none in  my life. There has been no time where as l have had issues to demonstate issues;
-1	I once had to administer CPR to an individual who was having an epileptic seizure. In this particular instance my medical knowledge  came in handy.
-1	I use my knowledge of cold and allergy to self assessment conditions in my household . I also can perform basic first aide and CPR 
-1	One day I was jumping too much without warming up or stretching so it put a lot of pressure on my knees which caused them to hurt. I couldn't run or jump without any pain. I decided to spend a month and 3 weeks icing my knees, stretching my lower body and doing lower bodyweight workouts like squats and lunges. No running or jumping occurred during this time period. It actually worked and I was able to run and jump pain free again. This taught me the importance of stretching and warming up.
-1	my mom had cancer the process is long around the clock doctors chemo. the doctors are very hard to work with and they do not care at all
-1	My friends blood pressure was high and I checked her temperature and seen if she was ok and then I called the doctor 
-1	My doctor visits I think taught me a lot. If you would like to know more about my visits the visit my website. I would tell you what it was but I lied about having a website so I could reach the word minimum. Idk if I reached it but I'm done typing now. Sike I lied I'm still here. Ok now I have probably reached it so bye.
-1	I try to remind others to be aware of the medications they take and ask their doctor many questions.
-1	After 58 years, I just know my own body. Couple my personal knowledge with biology and some health magazines, I just figured out some problems. I felt like my throat was closing up and something was in my chest. I di have acid reflux and a hernia in my esophagus.
-1	In the past I've been able to determine a the signs of seizure in a family member and I knew the steps to take to best help them.
1	I have knee issues. This caused me to become less active. I continued to eat the way I always have, poorly. I began to gain weight which caused my knees to hurt even more. I began to research and incorporate exercises that were less stressful on my knees. The slow process of losing weight has begun.
-1	When I go to the doctor I always ask him about my health, blood pressure, weight. I ask him the necessary questions
-1	I used to be a nurses assistant in high school and i used knowledge of diagnosis on the students to tell them what was wrong with them
-1	Just watching others go through health issues taught me more about health. Also, I can see what they are going wrong and right
-1	Some times it's hard for me to tell if I hve a kidney infection or a rinary tract infection.When I get one of these infections it is easy for me to tell which is whic before I make a trip to the doctor's office. 
-1	Some things are not a hundred percent accurate so try to take more then one test, also even though things are uncommon still get it checked out because it's still a percentage out there and you can be a statistic
-1	I can't really say, I do have some medical issues that I try and read up on. I'll read blog posts, forums, health magazines and ask others about their personal experiences.
-1	I think being pregnant for the 3rd time showed my experience I wasn't as afraid and knew what to expect 
-1	While at dinner, my best friend started to choke and I had to perform the Heimlich maneuver. I did it appropriately by following the steps
1	When my friend had injured himself playing basketball, I was able to adequately hell him patch up with my knowledge.
-1	There hasn't been many times I've demonstrated my knowledge  of health or medical issues unless a family member asks me. I only know basic health things, but nothing too complicated.
-1	I read a lot of medical journals and i visit a lot of mefical sites on the computer watch a lot of medical shows
-1	Have not really experienced or demonstrated a knowledge of health or medical issues in my life time that can exactly say
-1	When I noticed that something was wrong with my side, so I purchased an at home UTI test and realized that I had a severe UTI infection that traveled to my kidneys.
-1	My mother began feeling ill and was experiencing shortness of breath, chest pain, and radiating pain in her left arm. I knew she needed to go to the hospital to get checked out because something was going on with her heart. The doctors did a heart catherization and sure enough she needed stents in her heart.
-1	When I had a bad sinus infection, my doctor agreed with me when I stated that I was drinking alkaline water and consuming probiotics to help decrease my chances of getting another infection.
1	Just do not have any experience that qualifies under that guidline.  Not a medical type person, not at all.  do not have an idea because I am not interested in medicing
-1	Well I got into a car crash. And I was sent to see a doctor for my back because of the impact of the car. It made my back mess up a bit. So I was going to these classes for my backs and now it's fine 
1	When my little brother has a seizure. I know exactly what to do while he is having one and if it lasts longer than 4 minutes to call 911
-1	Nothing in particular. Just things i learn in school,doctors, or family and friends. i don't consider myself an expert in health or medicial issues
-1	Had a friend call that she need to go to hospital.  So I went to her home finding her sweating and larthergic. I called 911 and told them she was diabetic.  After, checking her blood sugar it was over 200.  She was taking by ambulance and the next day she had her big toe amputated.
1	I can't think of anything that would describe an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	I have a premed education, attained MPH and worked as an IRB Administrator. I also have research experience as well.
-1	I have been interested in the medical field since I was in high school so it took me taking a couple classes that made me stay interested in looking up my own information
-1	i have not hand any serious medical issues in my life. i am in good health. so i have nothing to write about for this queston
-1	When I was diagnosed with a tumor it caused my balance to be off and when I exercise I would get head aches I new something was wrong
1	A couple of months ago I was informed that I needed a root canal and crown. I asked the dentist if just removing the tooth was possible. After being informed yes, I chose that option. I knew that the chances of complications from tooth extractions are low.
-1	EVERYTHING LOOKS GOOD TO HEAR THAT YOU ARE LOOKING FOR A FEW YEARS TO LIVE LONGER THAN WHAT YOU ARE EXPECTED 
-1	I haven't really had any I try to stay as healthy and in good shape as I can and exercise often so I will be healthy and well
-1	I have very limited knowledge of medical and health issues.  I am diabetic, obese, have had several serious surgeries, have been hospitalized for months, and have arthritis.  I have some knowledge of some about the things I have experienced; no formal education.  Just life experience is my education.
-1	I have learned a few things about health in health class at school and from going to doctor appointments with my mom..she would also tell me if I feel anything is wrong then I should go to the doctors 
-1	I have a little knowledge of medical issues. But what I  don't know I have no problem in asking questions until  I get an answer that I can understand.  I will read up on it or call someone who can help me with the problem. 
-1	When I gotten beaten by a spider I looked up the side effects of it and it said I could have cancer if I didn't check it out so I did and it was true and I got it cut open and stitched back up 
-1	I do not have an intelligent answer to this question. I am not a medical doctor and can not answer this question.
-1	I have no situations in my life that demonstrated a health issue. I have been healthy all of my life. I thank the Lord for blessing me with good health.
-1	There have been a few instances where I had to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues. I've had acquaintances inform me about pains or discomfort, and I would be familiar with the symptoms and give them accurate information regarding how to treat it. Other instances include having to fill out documents at the dentist's office. 
-1	I was born in 1958 and I have a history of polio, so I reserched all any thing about the dreadful diesease to see if there are any cures for it
-1	Life is really serious so people need to take care of there body.. Because life is too short now a days 
-1	I was a practicing nurse at one point in my life. I also have several medical conditions that helps me with my knowledge.
-1	I remember having a pain in my tube near my lower left stomach area that would hurt if I moved to the left or while riding in a car. I went to the emergency ward at 3:AM and after examination I was told I had walking pneumonia. I checked in about 1 hour later. 
-1	I just recently found a lump in my breast and went to the doctor I was scared it was going to be cancer but it turned out to be a cyst
-1	Well I learned a lot once I was diagnosed with hodgkins lymphoma. Prior to that i did not know much about good health
1	Growing up I always got good grades in science and i watched a lot of medical shows, Over time I have gained a lot of knowledge about how the human body works 
-1	I work in the hospital and educate patients on their health problems. I inform them to ask any and all questions and do my best to answer and refer 
-1	I always keep track of my health and if I am experiencing any problems with my health. I would likely monitor my health
-1	When I was younger I was in the Army stationed at an Army Medical Center. I got a chance to visit first-hand many medical personnel who explain to me a lot of processes and procedures that I did not know about.
-1	Growning up i had to help take care of my family. I had to give them insulin because the are diabetic
-1	When I was trying to get pregnant after many  miscarriages and by my third if cycle  I felt pretty well versed in my prognosis 
-1	I have never had this happen , i dont really know a lot about my health. I always have to ask the doctor a lot of questions
1	I worked at a medical research facility when I was younger and I became interested in knowing how to care for myself and love ones
-1	I know that many medications we take as a whole is going to have some kind of side effects. Thats why it's best for body to heal naturally.
-1	I do not know for sure.  I knew when I was pregnant that I could get a medical issue, but it would not last.  The medical issue would go away after the pregnancy.
1	several years ago, I had a friend whose doctor told her she should have a hysterectomy because she had fibroids.  when she called me she was crying because she wanted children and would no longer be able to have any if she had the surgery. I advised her to get a second and even a third opinion because there were alternatives. She did and found a Doctor who was able to successfully remove her fibroids without doing a Hysterectomy and she now have 2 beautiful children!
-1	My weight loss experiences defined my knowledge of different weight loss drugs and my issues with losing weight
-1	I was walking one day and my foot started hurting The way The pain was feeling I had a hunch it was gout
-1	I know when you don't take of yourself your tend to break down and your health get worst sometime you will have to take drug to keep your body going 
-1	When I received a call from the doctor saying that my mom was being admitted to hospice, I immediately understood that it meant she had 6 months or less to live since hospice care is meant to make a patient comfortable in the last stages of life. I was a medical claims processor and claims auditor/trainer so I was very aware of what that meant because of my claims experience.
-1	I generally read and listen to what is being said in the medical community whenever I get the chance.  
-1	Annual checkup with the doctor has given me the knowledge and the education from the doctors as well to be able to comprehend.
-1	I remember along time ago, when my husband told me the symptoms he was seeing in his mother's behavior and he didn't know what to do. I had just read an article on alzheimer's. I told him to take his mother to the doctor. It turned out sadly that she did have an onset of the disease.
-1	Well I waa diagnosed with a pe before being diagnosed witj lupus. I read up on the pe, i found out that it is a blood clot and it can form anywhere. I alwaus look up thomgs to figure out whay it is.
-1	when my father had a stroke i was aware of what wad happening and i was able to diagnose him and get him help. 
-1	I was stomach issues.  Never was to concerned.  Figured ulcer, gas or bad indigestion.  One day had blood in my stool. That's when i got concerned.
1	I watch a lot of greys anatomy. My mom told me she needed to have an MRI done. I asked her if her doctor thought she had a brain tumor and she said yes. 
1	I am aware that you have to exercise and eat right to be health. I know that eating lots of fried foods can causechigh cholesterol
1	When a coworker admits that they are worried that they have appendicitis, I ask them which side of their abdomen hurts. If they say their left side, I reassure them that their appendix is on the right. 
-1	Last summer at the end of junior college year and through summer months I started having symptoms that would say that I was pregnant.. but I kept thinking no I can't be.. but then again all the right symptoms were there and I was right I was pregnant... now I have a bundle of joy
-1	I had a mammogram last year and received an abnormal response.  Very scary.  Had another one done and it was normal.  
-1	I am farely smart in science, so I am able to comprehend more than the normal person. I also keep up to date on the medical world
1	Getting a physical in the 9th grade. I can't remember the exact words. But i corrected a doctor on something to do with the heart.
-1	I was having issues with blood in my stool.  I knew I needed to see a gastroenterologist.   I knew this wa a G. I. Issue and that something may have been going on with my colon.  I have a family history of colon cancer also. I did have a colonoscopy which revealed cancer causing polyps, however for now things are okay.
-1	Just knowing what issues I have and taking steps to get the right kind of help needed no matter the stigma. 
-1	I had heavy bleeding during my cycle. My doctor suggested that I get a uterine ablation. She said the chances of my period stopping or significantly reducing was great. I chose the ablation.
-1	I had a stroke in 2001 as a result of having surgery.  I had to go on a strict diet and could not eat any salt.
-1	I can't think of a time when I was knowledgeable of my medical issues until after I had read up on it. When I became ill after being bit by a tick I was completely clueless until reading up on it for years.
-1	I can't think of an experience which shows my medical knowledge, as I have very little of it. I've never been in a strenuous situation where my knowledge was useful.
-1	Throughout life and all my experiences, I have learned my knowledge of my health or medical history. Being a 27 year old women now in the time it is, I have learned more knowledge through my own research also.
-1	I don't have any knowledge in the medical field. That is why I go to the doctor. If I knew I wouldn't waste my time going
-1	Recognizing my symptoms, looking them up, and self-diagnosing.  Doctors agreeing with my assessment.
-1	During my third trimester of my pregnancy the doctors discovered that I had STDs. They described to me what it was, how I could've gotten rid of it, how long it would've took, and how to prevent it in the future
1	When I was diagnosed with hypertension, I was familiar with the disease as my mother has it. My mother's hypertension is controlled.
-1	I was diagnosed with epilepsy at a young age. that got me to thinking about different things in my life that I could not do.
-1	I KNEW I HAD SYPHILLIS WHEN I SAW A DISCHARGE OR SOME STD SO I ASK DR & I WAS RIGHT MY PARTNER HAD A PARTNER 7 I DINT USE PROTECTION
-1	That was extremely difficult. I wasn't anticipating that type of information. I was thinking on the lines of reading over documents provided by the doctor. I never thought about statistics and how they relate.
-1	I honestly have not had any kind of health or medical issues throughout my entire life but I have knowledge of it 
1	"When my father died from an aortic aneurysm, my mother didn't understand whst happened to him.  I explained to her that since my father had high blood pressure for a very long time, and didn't take any meds for it, the constant pressure against his aorta weakened the walls, and once they have been weakened, it starts to bulge out.  Since there was still a constant high BP, the weakened are ""burst"", and caused him to bleed out.  The ED physician looked at me, and asked if I was a doctor.  I told him no, but I did go to school to become a RN, but never finished."
1	Had a badly sprained ankle while roller skating with my kids.  I went home and put ice on it right away for several hours.  I then treated the ankle with heat and ice while working the joint to prevent stiffness.  I was back on my feet pretty quickly after thinking i had a broken ankle initially.
-1	I can not describe an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues at this particular time.
-1	My 3 year old daughter had a stomach virus. I knew she needed to stay hydrated. I also knew she needed to rest not eat anything heavy. I monitored her temperature for two days while her symptoms were present.
-1	don't seem to have much knowledge on this topic because I let my doctor handle all of this I am more into mechanics which seems to turn me on
-1	having diabetes is a challegne, so i try to listen to my doctor. i also do alot of research to learn more about my situaition
-1	I woke one morning feeling odd. There was no reason for this. As i started figuring this out, i came up with chemical imbalance in my head. Doctor agreed.
1	I've never had any opportunity to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues . I've been lucky but I do know more than most people because I have a physician as a brother 
-1	Have diabetes, high blood pressure and high cholesterol.  Also have a hormone problem. So this has caused a lot of knowledge in health and medical information. 
-1	I know all my medications and their dosages and know what they have been prescribed for. I have a good idea of when I began taking the medication. I keep a journal of any new or mysterious symptoms that may occur and bring them to my doctor's office at the nex appointment.
-1	None. I haven't had any. I haven't been in any situation like that. No experience. I haven't had to demonstrate any knowledge.
-1	I have Crohn 's disease so i have had alot of hospital stays and medical procedures performed on my body it has been a learning experience 
-1	I was told that I have high cholesterol and needed to take meds. After reading about natural remedies coupled with exercise, I was able to lower numbers plus decrease meds.
-1	Discovering that I have digestive disorder. Several possibles were given to me as what type of disease I was not surprise because I had been reading information online and knew which one I had but again tests were made and I was right. 
-1	Putting God first in your life. Can keep u healthy. Listening to your can keep u healthy. Doing the right thing.
-1	My daughter had some abdominal issues a few weeks ago.  I knew some symptoms of constipation and appendicitis.  I used my knowledge to self diagnose and get some medicine and the pain went away.
-1	I do not know how to determine medical reading, but I know how I feel. Some of my feeling are really bad when I go to the doctor and see what is going one.
1	I was diagnosed with high blood pressure and prescribed medicine. I was able to  maintain low blood pressure through diet and exercise. I no longer need to take medicine.
-1	When I had an MRI done years ago to see if there was a tumor on my brain because of numerous headaches but was told brain is fine spine on the other hand well I was diagnosed at that time with cervical spondyliosis which means my spine is fused doctors want to operate hell no Ill die with a fused spine and what other abnormalities that I have
-1	I have had a situation in which I had to take a for of medicine, in which one of the side effects was itchy skin. It was very painful and I didn't know that it was a from the medicine at the time
-1	I felt a lump in my breast sometime back when I was doing my regular breast check in the bathroom and I called my oncologist to have it checked to see if there was anything I needed to worry about 
-1	I was in the Army for 6 years I'm a certified combat lifesaver and I got out I became cpr-certified and first aid certified
-1	I work in mental health, I have had to use what I know about health everyday to get the people that I work with back to a point where his mind is stable. Talking through certain situations make all the difference, it's all in approach. 
-1	no health issues my doctor told me I'm healthy as a horse my health is very good I eat less calories and healthy things 
-1	I have a physical once a year. At times my health issues not the best, but my doctor gives me information about what I need to do in order to maintain my health organization even get healthier.
-1	Used to work in medicine and help people because it's good to help people  it's great to help I help all the time
-1	A friend when to the ER for a certain thing, the doctors told her it was something serious but what they told her it was needed to be tested to find that out so I told her she needed to go somewhere else cause that needed to be tested
1	Giving Birth To My Daughter And Having To Have A Ceserean Section Because My Cervix Would Nk longer Dilate After 5 CM and With Every Contraction My Child's Heart Fate Would Drop Due To Stress
-1	I was a peer advocate in college so I learned about sexually transmitted diseases at the time which is how I know more 
-1	I have asthma. Therefore I am very careful if I am around smoke or any other hazderous materials. That is the only medical issue I have.
1	I went to the clinic with my baby cousin for her shots. The doctor gave the baby the shots but did not say the baby would get a fever. I then asked him if the  baby would get a  fever and he smiled and said he forgot to tell us about that.
-1	i dont really have any knowledge of health or medical issues outside of what was given to me by a doctor or that i read for a project or just because it was in regaurds to me.
-1	I have not had an experience in my life yet that required me to use any medical knowledge at this point in my life.
-1	I am a medical technologist, so I work with statistics and have taken classes in anatomy, clinical chemistry, hematology etc. I work in a clinical laboratory.
-1	I have taken health classes in the past and i used to major in exercise science so i have seen alot of this information before 
-1	When I found out I was allergic to something. I consumed it and started to break out. Broke out in hives
-1	When I was told about the process of a c-section while giving birth and how to stay calm and what the further steps I needed to do at that very moment in time
-1	My last surgery I was told to contact the doctor if my temperature rose above 105,But I knew that if you increase the oxygen to your lungs by walking or using a breathing apparatus it would decrease your temperature 
-1	I thank God I never had any medical or health issues.  I hear people every day going thru something, as I have been Blessed.
-1	On some it was a guess im not really good at something and others i am. But its good to know somethings about health and mental stuff can help you in the long run.
-1	With God's help, I cured my son of diabetes and I also helped my husband greatly reduce his diabetes medication 
-1	I had an abnormal mammogram. I had to get another mammogram and an ultrasound. The technician had to explain the necessity of the additional tests and the results. 
-1	I had a bacterial infection and it was very annoying it had a bad smell the doctor keep giving me the  wrong medicine  so I did my own research and went back to the doctor and told them what I had and I  finally got the right medicine
-1	I have a average of normal when It comes to experience in my life to the knowledge of health medical and or medical issues. If possible, I will search on the net to see what issues  that I might have.
1	Someone in my class passed out and I was CPR trained. They were not breathing so I did chest compressions while they were lying on a hard service. Then I used an AED machine and that fixed the problem.
-1	Every time I visit a health care professional it tests my knowledge because I am very knowledgeable because I read a Lot and pay attention to everything around me in that field it's a passion of mine.
-1	I contracted the flu because there was a shortage of vaccine that year. I went to the doctor and he prescribed Tamiflu. He asked why I did not get a shot and I replied that I was not considered high risk. He advised that I should classify myself as such because when I get a cough, it takes so long for me to get rid of it. So I still get my flu shot each year and I do not get the flu.
-1	Recently my mother got cancer so I looked up a bunch of cancer material to help my parents deal with this illness
1	My father is a diabetic and I was able to help him when his blood sugar reading was too low. I worked in an ophthalmologist office and a lot of our patients were diabetic so it was important to know how to treat them in case of an emergency. 
-1	being diagnosed with pcos I already knew that was the case due  to the symptoms i was having and my weight gain
-1	i had a breast mamagram and found out that i have small masses so the doctor did surgery one one breast but now do the other removal
-1	I know how to clean and apply a bandage to a small scrape or cut. And the rest I leave it to the professionals who are train in medical matters.
-1	All the symptoms I was having I would google to try to see what it was before I went to the doctors. 
-1	I knew I had gall bladder issues because I already google my symptoms prior to speaking with a health care professional 
-1	Only time that I can think of was when I was in college and I was taking an anatomy course and I had to take it and Ina me test and I did really well got an A on it so that's the only thing I can think of that would have demonstrated my knowledge to help their medical conditions
-1	I had  an health issue experience five years ago. I started feeling a sharp pain in my epigasrtric region, and was eventually diagnose with elevated blood pressure.
1	I have had a history of anxiety and depression for almost 5 years now. When I was starting with current counselor for treatment, I had mentioned that I was, at the time, a Psychology major. Being in the field of psychology and having had to take classes centering around what I was feeling really helped to put certain things into perspective. For example, when my counselor asked if I knew about a certain type of treatment that she wanted me to try, more often than not I would say yes because I had to study it at school. Knowing about things like that helped me to understand what she would discuss with me and helped her to put things into a frame of perspective for me.
-1	Working with children with mental illness and having a background in social work have helped me know what questions to ask and what to do in terms of intervention
1	The last time I had a hip replacement, I knew something was not right, in spite of others (physical therapists, nurses) insisting that everything was okay.  I was discharged with the issue still persisting. Less than 24 hours later I had to return to have a small procedure to fix the issue. The doctor agreed that I was not alright.
-1	I understand my conditions and the solution to manage these conditions. My primary care provider will alert me to any changes. 
-1	"This whole survey hurt my brain I can't take anymore. Algebra ahh Here's some random crap off the internet Medicine (British English Listeni/mdsn/; American English Listeni/mdsn/) is the science and practice of the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease.[1][2] The word ""medicine"" is derived from Latin medicus, meaning ""a physician"".[3][4] Medicine encompasses a variety of health care practices evolved to maintain and restore health by the prevention and treatment of illness. Contemporary medicine applies biomedical sciences, biomedical research, genetics, and medical technology to diagnose, treat, and prevent injury and disease, typically through pharmaceuticals or surgery, but also through therapies as diverse as psychotherapy, external splints and traction, medical devices, biologics, and ionizing radiation, amongst others.[5] Medicine has existed for thousands of years, during most of which it was an art (an area of skill and knowledge) frequently having connections to the religious and philosophical beliefs of local culture. For example, a medicine man would apply herbs and say prayers for healing, or an ancient philosopher and physician would apply bloodletting according to the theories of humorism. In recent centuries, since the advent of modern science, most medicine has become a combination of art and science (both basic and applied, under the umbrella of medical science). While stitching technique for sutures is an art learned through practice, the knowledge of what happens at the cellular and molecular level in the tissues being stitched arises through science. Prescientific forms of medicine are now known as traditional medicine and folk medicine. They remain commonly used with or instead of scientific medicine and are thus called alternative medicine. For example, evidence on the effectiveness of acupuncture is ""variable and inconsistent"" for any condition,[6] but is generally safe when done by an appropriately trained practitioner.[7] In contrast, treatments outside the bounds of safety and efficacy are termed quackery."
-1	None.  I can't think of any.  I'm not really a health junkie.   I just live each day to the fullest, hoping there is nothing wrong with my body.
-1	I work in a hospital with doctors and I have attended plenty of doctor appointments with my parents as well
-1	When a person from one of my classes had an epileptic episode I knew the first thing to do was to get him on his side and let the eipisodd past
-1	I am a Certified Medical assistant so I demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues on a daily basis. 
-1	i went to school for medical assistant so i know a little something about things so i can relate to some of the terms that the doctors use 
-1	An experience that I can recall is when I was telling a friend about her medical issues. It was sort of the same medical issues I had. This was a time I felt as if I had lots of medical knowledge.
-1	Regular annual exams taken in 1999 I had to have LEEP surgery due to precancerous cells. I went through procedure and all cells were removed
-1	When a relative was going through medical issues, and was told to take a certain medication with a high amount of side-effects, so I told her to ask the doctor for an alternative medication instead.
1	I know the visible signs for strokes. FAST is the acronym that can help determine if someone is having a stroke. I was able to use this knowledge to recognize the signs and was able to get help right away for my mother.
-1	I'm not a doctor. I go to the doctor to get treated for medical conditions. The doctors are the ones that are practicing medicine. All I do is tell them how I feel to best help them be able to know what's wrong with me.
-1	I went to the doctors one time because my throat was very sore. I checked at home and knew that I had strep throat.  There were white spots in the back of my throat and it was very hard and hard for me to swallow. 
1	I'm fairly good at noticing changes in my body and what it could mean medically. I also read some medical articles where I learn and consume symptoms that could indicate an issue.
-1	Reading on web md and listening to docters and nurses and watching Dr. Oz is a positive thing and taking surveys on health online and just learning from others conversations and social media and news
1	Had to care for my sick wife and buy and keep track of her medications.  Had to also spend more than two months in the hospital at her side day and night.
1	Being human, having my share of emergency room visits, and a few minor medical issues earlier in life. Later on going through pregnancy and delivering a child
-1	I have never had an experience that I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues. I'm sure in the future there might be some instances
-1	I noticed that I was having frequent headaches and feeling very jittery so I went to the doctor to get my blood pressure checked, they found I had high blood pressure. From then on I have been taking the medicine and watching my sodium intake.
-1	I'm very well read on auto-immune conditions, as I am dealing with a condition myself.  I was having muscle weakness and I studied and found out what might be wrong.
-1	I can't think of one that can be described in a few sentences or words. Medical health and issues are simple yet sometimes complicated.
-1	After having psoriasis for over an decade, I knew what type of treatments, and prescriptions were available and helped me.
1	When i had to take care of my mom who was sick and had seizures. I knew what to do when she were having a seizure and who to call about it.
-1	I'm not sure I know of any demonstration of health or medical issues other than a friend of mines had issues with high blood pressure she went to her doctor and after he gave her a thorough check up he prescribe medication to reduce her blood pressure
1	I have no idea how to answer this question.  I was sick and able to read the instructions on a medicine bottle and not od.  I lowered my average blood pressure by changing my diet.
-1	I try to be knowledgeable about what is going on with my body and being able to understand what the doctor is telling me.
-1	I really don't have an experience I can think of so I can't really answer this question ok ok okso I can't really answer this question 
-1	I have little to no experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues but this survey is making me feel dumb for not understanding this medial and health knowledge. 
-1	Thanks everyone for your birthday and we can attend I will have the same to time so I will have to do the same thing that he has been spoiling my daughter to get a chance thanks I will be there at 5 and I am going today at the park or library at 3 times today up and
1	No experiences really stick out. I've taken first aid and CPR training so those have given me some knowledge about various health and medical issues. 
-1	I had a pap that came back abnormal stating that I may have hpv but I didn't really have it. I took a couple more tests that proved it
-1	an experience in my life that demonstratedknowledge of health or medical issuea is when i had acid reflux and i couldn't breath it was the worst thing i ever had
-1	When I was in school and we were discussing a diseases. Many had no knowledge about it. but was just saying anything. Me, I knew a lot about it so I began to inform them. That's when I realized knew a lot more about health and medical issues than my peers.
-1	when the doctor first diagnosed me with Sarcoid. I began to study and research about this disease. Now I know of symptoms and issues that can result from the disease and from the medications used to treat this monstrous disease.
1	I took medical classes in high school. My grandmother is also a nurse who told plenty of stories of her daily work
-1	Im not really sure of a situtation I would put myself in that I could give you a story of that nature
1	When I had to take care of my mom as she got sick. She had a strong form of cancer and I had to learn the treatments for it and how to handle her declining health.
-1	I really can't recall an experience being that i haven't really had any medical issues that resulted me into seeing a doctor
-1	I have very little knowledge of medical issues, and can not pedict any care that is needed, so I must seek professional medical advice.
-1	I was born with a brain disease called Arteriorvenous Malformation. I had a stroke when I was 19 and a begin having seizures in 2010
-1	I don't really have experience other than researching stuff on my on on the Internet. That is the extent of my medical knowledge.
-1	I once had to take a medical terminology test for a job. I received an 80%. I knew and understood more medical terms than I realized.
-1	i had an anyurism in 2009 i didnt know if i was going to be okay because i was out of it for about 1 week but i finally came to, i had to take therapy classes but i came out okay.
-1	I have cluster headackes that is feel very capable about making choice for my medical are very good about all choice of my doctors are all 
-1	As an emt i learned much about health. Basic thing's i dealt with was sprang and breaks. Outsole come to me often to ask about something going on if i know what's going on i will try to help them. If not i will tell them to go to the doctor. 
-1	Health knowledge is to learn more about my medical issues from my doctor and ask the questions i need to ask
-1	I have migraines and cluster headaches so bad I have to go to an emergency room & make several same day doctor visits 
-1	Researching any symptoms, helped with having knowledge before hand, and helped with knowing what to discuss with physician regarding healthcare monitoring and concerns
-1	I ws experiencing pain and the drs couldn't find the cause I did research and spoke openly with my dr about all the issues I was having
-1	I once had a asthma attack that i had to be put on a breathing machine.So i changed the way i exercise and diet to make me Healthy.
-1	Having previous miscarriages and explaining my history to a new OB-GYN demonstrated knowledge of my health and medical issues.
-1	When I was in the air Force, we had to perform self aid buddy care and take CPR classes. We had to learn what to do in certain medical situations and different medical terminology.
1	my friend was having complications with her pregnancy so I helped her and calmed her down and it all turned out ok
-1	My mother frequently had mammograms performed and during that time I researched breast cancer on my own.
1	Told that my sister had food poisoning, probably ate some mayonnaise. Everyone else had eaten the same food. She had nause, vomiting bile and severe abdominal pain, coming under not keep any thing down...RL quadrant pain. I told the dr. She had gallstones and had her transferred to another hospital where it was correctly Diagnosed and she had surgery.
-1	When i experienced respiratory stress during a heatwave in Chicago that killed many people.  I was one of the lucky ones because I realized what I needed to do to breathe and maintain composure.
-1	Some years ago I attended a university to study medical assisting.  I finish all courses of study, but never passed my state exam.
-1	I don't remember having to go through anything like this before. So I wouldn't know how to answer this question. 
1	I was asked why humans cannot naturally survive on a plant diet without pills. I told the person that meat is much more nutritous than plants ever will be and has much more calories. I also told them that vitamins and minerals are much easier absorbed from other animals and that some vitamins are only found in animal meat.
1	I took biology and health education classes in school. I feel these classes and courses gave me a good understanding of the basic health and medical issues a person can encounter while in high school.
-1	I can remember any issues that I can comment on .  I not had any experiences where this has happwned
-1	had to read up on a cold that i had and the medicince that the doctor had to give me and i found out that the medicince was the best for the cold so i went to another doctor and he gave me better pills
1	My knowledge of knee issues have given plenty of people enough information to make a decision regarding getting arthroscopic surgery.
-1	Pretty decent considering my time in the medical field. I feel knowledgeable enough to have a good understanding.
-1	I used to work as a nurses aid for a children's hospital and grew accustomed to the feel of one forehead to tell if they had a fever
-1	I was able to determine that a medication prescribed for me was making me tired and feel very fatigued. The felt like the dosage was to high. So, I split the pill in half and started taking it like that. I continued to receive the benefits that the medication was prescribed for without the negative side effects
-1	The experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I had strep throat.
1	I cannot say that I am well versed on health issues. I have children and I often rely on the internet and thorough research when it comes to health issues before seeking a doctor. It has always been a great help to me.
1	My mother has dementia.  I have researched online the different drugs that can be prescribed to slow this process.  I talk to her doctor about changing her prescription when I see that there is no noticeable improvement in her condition.
-1	Good experience with your new scenes and the characters and you are very good to be your character or character and the characters and you are great to be honest with the character you can see on your own characters or character character of character character or characters character or the characters character or characters or the characters or characters characters character and the story of the game and the story characters 
-1	I watched over my grandmother as she was getting older. I realized that she was feeling really warm one day and I thought she might have a fever. After taking her temperature we realized that she did have a fever.
-1	I have not had many medical problems in my life fortunately. I have been diagnosed with having uterine fibroids that I was informed would cause me to potentially not be able to carry a child without the possibility of having a miscarriage. 
-1	I go to the doctor's office for check-ups and stuff. I also live with my grandma who is very health conscious.
-1	I figured out that the extreme pain and difficulty with mobility that I was having was due to disc problems that I was having with my back. This was before I consulted with my doctor.
-1	When I had sinus surgery. I knew a lot of the words the doctor used because of the things I learned when I went to Chiropractic School.
-1	I had two surgeries last year and had to research my condition so I'd be able to understand it better. 
-1	I've never had an experience where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. This isn't my field of work so I try not to give false information though I know a bit. Every person ia different so who am I as an untrained doctor to give advice 
-1	I displayed symptoms of unbalanced anbulation and neuropathy in my feet not relieved by pain medicine and all test results were normal. I figured the cause to be 1 of 2 diagnosis and was correct after all evaluations were completed
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.. I don't know...
-1	I thought this wasn't a good barametor on that. I thought it was very unnecessary and not really relevant to the survey's topic. 
-1	I recently found out that I have anemia. It made me take better care of myself by getting the proper nutrients needed daily as well as working out. 
-1	Mamogram which scard me because I had a lump it came out to be only a cyst. That was the scariest moment of my life.
-1	I can't think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I actually have no knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	As stated in the letter of intent, the NHMFL offers the capability to measure actinide materials under unique conditions. Conventional transport measurements can be performed with lock-in amplifiers or resistance bridges using the extreme environments available at the NHMFL. In addition, very sensitive skin depth measurements can also be used where a sample is placed in the inductor coil of a resonant tunnel diode oscillator circuit. Frequency changes to the circuit allow one to learn about the penetration depth of superconductors, susceptibility of magnetic materials or perform quantum oscillation studies on metals. This technique has the advantage of being contactless to avoid damaging fragile samples m. 
-1	My grandmother suffered and succumbed to renal failure, which was highblood related.  Highbllod pressure is a def. Silent killer. They need better treatments for kidney patients. Solutions need to begin at an early age for each person born.
-1	At one point in time I had a yeast infection, and decided to treat it myself by giving myself regular rinses with a mixture of raw unfiltered organic apple cider vinegar with the 'mother' and distilled water, I would also soak a tampon in that same mixture and insert it.  Twice a day i would drink water with 2 tablespoons of the same vinegar---all natural cure/treatment!
-1	I don't know what to write right here. I don't understand this question clear enough. What should I write if I don't understand the question.
-1	unfortunately, I do not have much experiences that I can think of immediately that that can demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	When I was diagnosed with avascular necrosis which is secondary to lupus; I understood that the condition was caused by long term use of prednisone, a corticosteroid. Eventually I would need hip replacement to ease the pain caused by this condition. Continued use would cause for damage in other joints which it has. Unfortunately, this treatment is necessary to help keep the lupus stable.
-1	None. Never had health problems. I always took care of my health. I only caught colds and maybe a few allergies but nothing major or serious or life threatening.
-1	my doctor diagnose me with high blood pressure and depression i have to take my medicine twice a day and one at night
-1	No particular experience comes to mind at the moment.  In general, I feel like I have a good understanding of health or medical issues.  Things are usually made clear enough that I can easily understand and if I need further information I ask someone with that knowledge or do some research.
-1	I went to the doctor before had blood in my urine they said it was nothing to worry about until I got something checked out and it was nothing to worry about it was yet the exercise I was doing with for strenuous on my body
-1	Last year I diagnosed myself with a corneal ulcer based on what I was seeing and symptoms of it. When I went into the eye doctor it turns out I was correct in my diagnosis.
-1	I haven't really allowed anything to go on that long before I do something to prevent certain things such as high blood pressure and diabetes.
-1	When I as told I was pregnant I already knew I was pregnant because I took a test to confirm before I went to the doctors office 
-1	When I took my voted class for medical field . I learned things in the health department . It taught me what to expect and what not to expect & to be aware . 
-1	i was having which i thought was the flu; but when i started wheezing and bronicit coughing, i knew it was probably much more.like acute brochitis or something of that nature.
-1	I have never had this type of experience. I am not well versed in health issues. I just know what you shouldn't do.
-1	I had my pressure checked after a minor fender bender, and it was elevated. I knew it was a result of the accident, because my pressure is usually normal.
1	I had a sore throat for more than a week. I took the regular over the counter drugs and they did not work so I went to the doctor suspecting it was strep. After the test was done, I was right. I had strep and received a prescription.
-1	I am really not medically knowledgeable so I do not have an experience to provide. I can give a cold as an experience just take cold medicine which I do not take
-1	I had to take a health and wellness course i  order to qualify for a job. I could also test out of the course if I received a B or higher. I chose to test out and received an A.
-1	I used to get asthma attacks a lot because I didn't know how to control it, but as the years went on, I learned how to control it and now I don't get attacks as often.
-1	My dad passed out with low sugar. I called 911 and sat him up and have him orange juice. .... I did cpr on a baby puppy that wasn't breathing and brought him back to life
-1	my quarterly wellness visit relative to my knowledge and awareness of reducing and controlling my 1AC LEVEL.
-1	I went to the doctor and my blood pressure was high. I knew all about hypertension and I know that because I was rushing in that could have been a factor. I also know how to take one so I was knowledgeable in that also. 
-1	There are things what you think what you need things things can get better then last rgiibgs I want to think about happy things
1	"My spouse & I had a 'practice dog', the eldest of our 4 pooches, at 15 years old, who developed diabetes, seizures, bilateral cataracts leading to blindness in left eye, Cushing's disease, abdominal tumor & lots of attitude as ""The Queen"", I guess that's all. Who else but me as the ""Other Lady of the House"" according to ""The Queen"", performing duties of checking the dear dog's ears for weekly blood sugar checks, administering insulin twice daily, monitoring seizure activity, daily food intake & vet visits. Well, spouse did pay for it all financially, so it balanced (smile). This is just one example of many from also being the eldest of 10 children.  "
-1	not sure I want to divulge my personal experiences on this forum. Because I'm relatively healthy I haven't had many medical issues.
-1	I never have any healtg or medical issues that would be serious. So i dont know how to explain more on this topic
-1	I don't know, this question I can't answer because I really do t know. I don't know what to say. Air have no answer!
-1	My younger brother is prone to nose bleeds and one time he had really bad one. I told him to hold his head down instead of back so that the blood would drain properly and not into his throat. I then told him to wash a peeny and place it under his tongue to help the vlood clot faster and stop the nose bleed. It worked.
-1	I experience in your life that deminsted your knowledge of health issue because I had medical health issues in my life 
-1	I have had no real medical issues as date in my life but my knowledge of health or mrdical issues is learned from TV and the internet. The internet has a lot of information that you can learn about health and medical issues. WebMD is one site that visit to look up information and to stay informed. I don't go to a doctor for minor stuff like colds. Internet has information that can help you with that minor everyday stuff.
1	I am currently a student at the University of Michigan studying Biomedical Engineering. I am able to help my friends with small health issues that can usually be solved while at home. So I can inform a friend if he/she needs to hydrate more if something is found wrong or take other measures to make sure they are healthy.  
1	unfortunately, I cannot think of a specific experience off of the top of my head at this particular moment.
-1	It started when I took a trip to my doctor for a regular schedule check up he told me that they had found something abnormal an wanted to keep a eye on it. So he kept me over for observation 
-1	quality quick everything even rating report update one post all see data display follow find good graphic general journal job key known line zone  case
-1	I cannot really recall an event in that manner that has happened to me. I have never been in that situation so I have no event like that. 
-1	I have had 2 c-sections the first was not scheduled and the doctors and nurses that were there were very open to my questions and let me know every step what was going on
-1	i use the internet to find stuff out about medical issues i hear about and i find out about alot of stuff
-1	I'm not sure if I have any and I'm not sure how to answer this question in many words. I do apologize I do not know.
-1	Having pain in my shoulder, i advised the doctor i thought it was arthritis, and after test it was discovered that it was arthritis.
1	One time a child I was looking after fell into a pool. I had to perform cpr and save his life. It was very scary, but luckily I knew CPR
1	For a number of years, I was my mother's primary caregiver. I accompanied her to her numerous doctor appointments and managed her medications. When she had emergent episodes, I was always there as an advocate speaking on her behalf to doctors.
-1	i really have no experience in the medical field.  but i do have knowledge from my fiance. She educates me on alot of things
-1	When I had a test done and it came back postive.  But I didn't feel it was right so they did the test again.  And it came back negative.
-1	Going to the doctor and understanding my diagnosis was a time that my knowledge of medical and health issues were demonstrated 
-1	I had a lump on my breast I examine myself to make sure wasn't hard it was very soft so I knew it wasn't cancer but I went to the doctor anyway just to make sure it wasn't cancer they told me I just had a pocket of fluid
-1	I had an abnormal pap smear and had to have a biopsy done on my cervix to check for cancerous cells. I knew exactly what had to be done. When a biopsy is performed a microscopic piece of the tissue of the suspected area is taken and tested.
-1	I have not had an experience in which I had to demonstrate that I had knowledge of any health or medical issues. 
-1	I started college when I was 21 and I went for medical assisting. I have always wanted to be a nurse. I decided to try medical assisting to see if I could handle it and to see if I wanted to try nursing. Nursing was not for me and I found that out at an early age. I really liked being a medical assisting and I learned a lot about how the body works and what part each organ play. I know medical  issues and what causes them and the treatment. I love being in the medical field.
-1	I dont even understand the questions so I am not exactly sure what you want from this answer and not sure how to answer the questions
-1	I'm very confident on my responses, however i don't know everything, some of this response maybe would be wrong
-1	There is no experience in my life that demostrated knowledge of health or medical issues at all or now
-1	when i had gall bladder problems i figured it out where the pain was located of what it was. i was in great pain
-1	My best friend and roommate has heart problems and so she has to have a lot of appointments and I go with her. She receives several informations papers to take home furthermore explaining her condition and how she can livve a healthy lifestyle. I help her understand the information
1	One of the main experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I took a health class in high school. I earned an A in the class, and still remember the materials to this day.
1	This survey demonstrartes a semi knowledge of medical terminology and understand of certain health risks and factors. 
-1	I'm not sure I have such an experience. I have had knee replacements.  I decided to have both of them done at the same time after the doctor told me I was a good candidate for doing that.  I have often thought since I'm so glad I did.  I'm not too sure I would have ever had the second one done if I did not.
-1	I really can't say. I do not believe math questions should be on a survey. What is this a test? I thought I was supposed to just give my opinion. 
-1	I had gestational diabetes and i had to learn to control and check my blood sugar. I had to take a class for healthy eating And eat a managed diet
1	There was a child at my job that had a nuts food allergy and I stopped them from eating candy with almonds in it because they didn't know almonds are nuts.
-1	I have expirenced a lot of heart ach and pain when it comes to my health. Ive been in accidents and I am not afariad to makesure it doesnt happen agagin.
1	DIAGNOSED MANY YEARS AGO WITH HEPITITIS AFTER SEEING MANY DOCTORS AND SPECIALISTS AND TWO LIVER BIOPSIES I RECIEVED SEVEN DIFFERENT OPINIONS AND FINALLY RECOVERED WITHOUT ANY MORE MEDICAL ADVICE
-1	I had a urinary tract infection. I read up on what I could do before seeing my doctor. I drank a lot of water and cranberry juice (several liters) and the infection almost cleared by the time I saw my doctor, as per test result. 
-1	I haven't heard or read much concerning my own health issues. I feel fine the way I should be. But I think every now and then would be not much to do. ............................
-1	I do not have any knowledge of health or medical issues, I am relatively clueless on the subject matter and do not know much about it.
-1	I can't really think of such a time. I know some about health and medical issues but am not extremely knowledgeable when it comes to these things.
1	My mom was recently admitted to the hospital due to issues with her oxygen levels.  I knew that she had to use her CPAP regularly to get her oxygen under control.
1	Past advanced first aid training, life saving certification by the American Red Cross, certified as a trainer for first aid, and twenty three years in government law enforcement.
1	Recently i had extreme pain in my hip every time i stood up, but there was no grinding in my hip, and i had no build up to the symptoms. I figured it was probably something in my lower back, since i have gained weight and that has affected my posture, and i turned out to be right
1	I have to tell people about my lupus and my pulmonary hypertension all the time.  They both can be hard for people to understand.
-1	at times due to magnesium levels being low and ending up going to the er a few times and receiving iv's of magnesium to stabilize me, my kidney docotr figured out i have a mag. deficinecy/wasting disease
1	I don't have much experience with health/medical knowledge because it scares me to read about such things.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or a medical is having high blood pressure. Having to keep up with the readings and taking medication on time.
-1	Actually when I was about 12 years old a friend and I went bike riding and she lost control of her bike and hit a pole and split her head my first reaction was to have her removed one of her socks and put it on her head too kind of control the bleeding.
-1	A time in my life that showed that I had knowledge of health and medical issues wer having to perform cpr on an individual.
1	I recently had to have surgery for a blockage. I spoke with the surgeon to learn the risks and the benefits, and made ,y final decisson.
-1	 A  experience in  my life    that demonstrated  my  knowledge  of health  or medical issues  is the doctor   prescribing   me medicine   to take for  my high  blood pressure  and  other  issues .
-1	being able to call the Dr about a possbile infection my Mom had in a surgrey site and found out I was right
-1	I went to donate plasma. Got told that I had arrhythmia. Didn't know much , so I googled it . Got my answers.
-1	A life experience pertaining to my knowledge of my health issues was the fact that I had cold brought on by me because i smoked two packages of cigarettes per day for 50 years
-1	If there was a reverse action that could have been taken when my doctor cut the umbilical chord from my child, I would have wanted to know. Once I got the invite, I watched and heard, and listened to the heart monitor to know I could not had cut it.  
-1	Two years ago I had triple bypass and had to leatn all the problems and outcome of it which was hard
1	Had to research side effects from medications over the weekend while my doctor was out of town. Found out there were contraindications the doctor neglected to tell me about.
-1	because I am to read and understand certain medical things so I can probably distinguish what it says 
-1	my father and mother had heart attacks and i spent a lot of time in the hospitals with each and i learned a lot about the process
1	When I look up things online I get a lot of know it all. I like to look things up online a lot to know thing about health.
-1	I do not know nothing about health and I do not worry about it because we will not live foreverThat is all I can say right now
1	i teach and certify in cpr first aid and aed. i am a safety director and i need to know plenty of medical terms and situations and what to do in them
1	I studied human physiology in college for 4 years.  I worked as a CNA during my senior year of high school and freshman year of college.  I helped the youth hockey team athletic trainer wrap injuries and rehabilitate athletes. 
-1	yes theres a very good expeirence that i got to know as when my relative was admitted in hospital and they chargedhuge money .
1	Passing my high school red cross training class with top grades and getting my first aid and CPR certification.
1	I have a bachelors degree in nursing and have worked in a hospital for seven years. I also have a masters degree in nursing informatics. 
1	when I feel bad or sick, I will make an appointment with my doctor.  I will follow her advice on what to do and if it's serious  
-1	I try to understand and research all documents to the best of my ability and will always ask questions when something does not seem right. 
1	Over the past few years, my boyfriend has been working in cardiovascular and oncology labs and so have learned a lot about health issues, how they affect people, and the science behind them.
-1	We all know stories about doctors who gave their patient a clean bill of health only to see that patient drop dead at their doorstep. Of course, this does not mean the doctor made a mistake. People get sick suddenly and unpredictably. But there are also documented accounts of doctors who read an X-ray as normal, when it plainly showed a cancer. I know of a doctor who claimed a patients eye was diseased, when it was not; and then proceeded to operate on the wrong eye! Luckily the eye he wanted to remove was normal. Over the years I have had a number of malpractice lawyers in my practice, so I have heard numerous stories of this sortsome that would make your hair stand up on end
1	I can't think of a particular example, but people (co-workers, friends, etc.) often come to me for advice. 
1	I thoroughly wrote down a list of symptoms and lifestyle changes prior to my appointment in order to present them to my doctor.
1	I haven't gone to the doctor for many serious illnesses but I was coughing really bad for a few days and I knew it was something other than a cold so I went in and ended up having bronchitis
-1	I have no clue as to what the heck you want me to say! This is getting pretty ridiculous! I have no knowledge of anything !
1	I've had diabetes for 12 1/2 years now. Not limiting this to a certain experience, I am capable of giving correct dosages of insulin, treating rare episodes of low blood sugar, and recognizing symptoms.
-1	I keep fairly on top of things medical wise.  I have never been in a hospital, with the exception fo when I was born, being for the most part a very healthy person.  
-1	Quite a few years ago, a very close friend of mine had came in from work. He went straight to the bedroom and laid across the bed, when I went back to check on him it was as if someone had thrown water on him I knew to call 911.
1	when I had white bumps on my mouth and looked on webmd and put in all of my symptoms and followed what to do to get rid of them
1	I generally don't have a good handle when it comes to health issues.  I use the internet quite a bit to try and understand a condition.  I also look to the internet for treatments and advice when i am not sure of something.   I also learn a bit from reading and listening to my doctor or others who have more knowledge than me.  Other than that I am pretty much in the dark.  
-1	"I'm really bad at math, first of all. But both my daughters (under 3) have a genetic condition called ""congenital adrenal hyperplasia"" so we have had a lot of times in the hospital - where we had to test our medical knowledge and confidence in the medical field "
1	I generally treat myself via nutritionally supplements, diet, and exercise.  Recently I noticed that I was losing my balance in situations where I would not normally.  I increased my intake of B12 (via sublingual supplements), and engaged in balance-stimulating exercises.  Within a short period of time my balance improved.
-1	I do not have any experience that I am able to recall at this time. This is a silly question and I have nothing more to add
1	Never had any serious health issues and therefore don't have all the knowledge. I do believe I have some common sense and can listen and ask questions
1	I learned a lot working in the hospital administrative office.  Enough to talk to patients and fill out forms.
1	I was diagnosed as bipolar in 2012, but later found out that the symptoms were actually partial-complex seizures due to a bleed in my brain. Coming to terms with this and managing my symptoms required lots of medical knowledge.
1	I study my blood test because I have Graves Disease and did a lot of reading on the issue and how it affects so many organs. So, now, I really look intensely at my numbers to see what's really going on. Especially my Hormone levels and after taking my meds. If I don't know, I go to the internet med sites.
-1	My son was born with multiple congenital heart defects. I had to learn medical terminology and learn about drugs and side effects. I had to learn how to place his feeding tube, because he often pulled it out, and I'd have to put it back in. I had to learn how to use a stethoscope and learn to decipher different sounds inside the body. I had to learn how to flush a pic line and administer medication through it. The list goes on and on.
-1	 I fell I had to go to the hospital I had OR I F surgery they tried to give me morphine and died lauded I opted to just use ice because there's no matter what medication do you take your side effects on the side Effects for these medications are bad so why do doctors push them on people no pain no gain
-1	I had to present a presentation in a healthcare class I took in high school and I had to research and use my own knowledge of the medical field with the research material to present. 
-1	Whenever I have to assist my grandmother with her medical papers, I have to have some knowledge to answer those questions accurately. 
-1	That would be hard for me to do since I have never been in the hospital and have only been to the ER 2 times in my lifetime. I guess I could say that when I broke my foot I knew about what would happen when I got to the ER, they put on a cast which I wore for about 6 weeks.
-1	I am always finding new facts about my health. Whether by asking or finding it during my own research 
-1	I have had a healthy life so I do not spend a lot of time learning and reading about medical issues in addition to that I really do not interest in medical isssues.
-1	A mammogram is used to screen women for breast cancer. False positives are tests that incorrectly show a positive result. 85% of positive mammograms are actually false positives.
-1	I was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes...I was told that I would need medication...I did  research, took classes, and got my numbers under control without the use of medications
-1	10 years ago I went through treatment for a rare form of breast cancer and I learned a lot about the type of cancer I had and the processes the doctors, etc. did by going to medical webs sites and reading the materials provided to me.
1	Nothing really comes to mind here. I have had very few health issues in my life and don't spend much time in situations where other people are likely to have issues. 
-1	No one  no one is a little bit and the same to get to be there is it is a little bit and I love you know what
-1	I have not had any major health issues so far in my life but i still try to keep my knowledge of health problems in the fore front of life
-1	I have taken care of family members with life threatening diseases to their death and went to all doctor appts
-1	Whenever someone I know experiences a health issue, they usually ask me if I have had it and any suggestions on the treatment. I will always share my knowledge and try to help them any way I can. If I cannot answer their questions, then I will tell them to make a doctor's appointment and discuss it with him or her.
-1	When I talk with my friends I always demote my knowledge about health because I always give positive recommendations about my experience and this works for them
-1	The Community Health Educator acts as the bridge between the organization and the community on issues relating to public and individual health. He or she, in addition to presenting health issues and education to the public in a variety of ways, counsels and makes referrals in matters of individual health care, and also recruits and trains members of the community to act as resources for health information.
-1	I am type one diabetic, so I know my immune system extremely well.  When I get sick, I can usually tell if it is just a cold or if it is a sinus or ear infection.
-1	Well, I have a few health issues.I prayed for God to take care of me and heal and touch me.I felt so good and I don't have to worry about my health problems to increase.God Decreased my Health problems and that's very good news.
1	I had a mild allergic reaction to a medicine and the nurse at the doctor's office said that I didn't on the phone. I went to the emergency room anyway and they treated it. I looked in the PDR and found out the percentage of people who have a reaction and called for an appointment. At the appointment, I talked to the doctor about the symptoms I had had and the incidence of allergic reactions.
1	I have done enough research and had the time to research my condition to make a reasonable assumption of my medical condition.
-1	My experience with health issues was suddenly. Emergency surgery for diverticulitis. No health issues since.
-1	time spent in the hospital along with the questions i have asked about my health over the last 50 years
-1	Experience is the key. I have had several false mammograms. I have dealt with health stuff all my life
-1	When I needed knee replacement surgery, I read up on the procedure and went to a class to find out more about it and what will happen afterwards.
1	I was having stomach pains, so I thought I was just constipated. I took a laxative and everything was fine. It was reduced to a dull pain. I woke up in the middle of the night with a sharp pain on my right side. I decided to look it up and decided it was appendicitis.
-1	I worked in an old folks home, and the woman was taking insulan, her blood suger was really low, and I remembered that a glass of orange juice will help steady her blood sugar
-1	I have gone through a lot of issues with my heart, I have had angioplasty, cardiac ablation, and I have a defibrillator. I demonstrated my knowledge when a friend went through some similiar issues, and I was able to offer her comfort through my knowledge.
-1	 worked for a pharmacy for 22 years and learned a lot about drugs and interactions and what they can do for diseases
1	An experience I have had that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues is when my child went to the doctor and was told he had an ear infection. I knew he was going to need antibiotics for a week to get rid of it
1	my life is an accumulation of my experiences, my spouses and my parents.  i learned from each of these.
1	I was diagnosed 13 years ago with a rare tumor on my andrenal gland that caused my uncontrolled high blood pressure. it was removed but i learned so much about medications, hospitals, doctors. i know a lot and continue to learn as my mom has health problems and i have to assist her now that she is in her 80s
1	I obtained a degree and license as a registered nurse and have worked in healthcare for over 20 years
1	My ability to explain my vondition to paramedics who are uneducated about it. They tend to not like seeing me, because they cannot fo much gor me.
-1	I had my right upper lobe of my lung removed. There was an 85 percent change it was cancer so of course did alot of research on what my odds were types of cancers and prognosisl. I was very lucky it was not cancer but infection that had literally caused a whole in my lung.
1	I was getting dizzy and I figured out it was due to my neq medicine. I looked up information about the medicine , and , sure enough, it was the medicine.
-1	I was diagnosed with colon cancer in 2002 and had been very familiar with this due to my father having had colon cancer five times throughout his life before he passed away. Very familiar with tests and precautions to take.
1	I Once Stung By A Yellow Jacket And Had Severe Allergic Reaction. I Promptly Took Soon Benedryl And Then Went To The Hospital Immediately.
-1	When I help out family members and friends with the ailments they have. They usually ask me for advice on various topics concerning about health. 
-1	i just read a lot and I don't really care to learn anything as that is what a doctor is for to tell me what to do how to eat 
1	I honestly cannot think of any instance where I have demonstrated a knowledge of health or other medical issues.  
-1	My husband had pain after falling off a ladder. He was checked out by medics and they felt he was fine. The next day the pain was worse- I accepted no excuses from him, we went to the emergency room.  Two broken ribs.
-1	I was feeling extremely tired and having a lot of weight gain, as my mom had thyroid problems thought that could be the reason and it was.
-1	When my wife went into coma for 13 days and I was the one reading everything I had to sign for her and her test results from X-rays and blood test
1	My fiance's father was recently admitted to the hospital. He was having internal bleeding and underwent several gastro tests to figure out what happened. I was able to help my fiance understand some of the results of these tests.
-1	Not sure what your talking about to me. I have some knowledge do to my actions that i  have done in the past
-1	my own diagnosis is sometimes better than doctors they think they know it all but I have CMT2 and they don't know much about that and can kill you.
-1	Dealing with my father's healthcare during his last 4 years of life. I was responsible for overseeing his nursing home care, hospital care, co-ordinating his medical care with all physicians and hospice. 
-1	I kept having strange stomach ailments...excissive gas, stomach pain 2 hours after going to bed at night, to name a few. I thought I might have H-Pilari. I asked my Dr. about it and he did the bloodwork. I did have H-Pilari.
-1	My doctor told me I have borederline diabetes and I need to watch waht I eat. Therefore, I'm conscious of what I eat and I make sure I drink plenty of water.
1	The truth I have no experiences of that type until now neither with my health nor with the family of near, the floor that I explain in detail each relation of that type
-1	I grew itchy spreads inbsome reas of my body and new it was because of my unhealthy and unbalanced diet
1	A nurse did not believe me when I called to get an appointment w/ doc because I knew I had bronchitis, based on my past history and asthma.  It had not yet been 10 days as requested to wait to make sure not just a cold; I was inisistent, but was refused an appointment.  I called back the next day insisting for an appointment or have doc call me--NADA.  At the end of 10 days, I called again, making it clear that if I was not able to be seen today, I would let doc know that I had been put off for 3 days.  I got in.  Now, the bronchitis is so bad, I had to go on steroids because the nurse refused to get me an appointment.  Doc said she told nurse to call me back and get me in the first day I called, but she didn't, nor did she get me in the next day when I called. . . . I was right:  I had bronchitis.  The nurse was fired!
1	My wife went thru cancer for 3 years. Triple negative which could have been detected years before had she gone in for testing but most women don't have signs or are unable to pay the high fees involved for good testing.
1	When a family member asks me or when my wife and son get sick and need help it helps me to know tips that i read in books, blogs and websites
-1	I was on the wrong blood pressure medication and kept telling the doctor I didn't feel right.  After several visits he finally looked up the side effects
-1	I had a foster daughter who at seventeen had a rash on her back that was painful. I took her to the doctor and told him I thought it was shingles and he said it was. He then asked me why I brought my kids it when most of the time I already knew what was wrong them. I told him it was because I wasn't allowed to write prescriptions.
1	My aunt had schizophrenia.  She also had tardive dyskinesia.  I explained that to my dad (her brother). My father had kidney cancer.  I had to go with him for each appointment to listen to the doctor for him due to him being in shock 
-1	i hate doing all that math so i guessed at a few if you cannot tell i have no time for math i hate math and never will ever in my days like to do math
-1	i knew how to control my asthma symptoms before i was told how to by my doctor.avoiding my trigger and internet research helped me without having to rely on him
-1	Not to much just know about heart health it is a big problem for my family so I try to keep on top of it most of the time
-1	I have been on medication for high cholesterol for a number of years.  I am able to read the reports my doctor provides me on the blood tests that are completed each year to monitor this condition.  
1	I had neurological pain symptoms in my feet. I had to argue with my doctor for two years that it was not athlete foot and that since his treatment of me had failed for two years maybe he should refer me to a neurologist. He refused to even consider it. When I finally got to a neurologist she said I was right and the GP should have paid attention to my research. 
-1	IDO NOT HAVE THAT MUCH KNOWLEDGE ABOUT MY OWN HEALTH CONDITION SO THEREFORE I CAN NOT MAKE ANY SPECIFIC DIOGNOSIS OF MY HEALTH ISSUES.
1	Helped my mother with her cancer.  Learned a lot about lymphoma and leukemia.  Also about chemotherapy and blood tests of red and white blood cells.
-1	I have a medical library the consists of cards with everything that has to do with health that I have read and watch doctor shows. I have also been in the hospital 16 years ago with a serious condition that that made me interested in and have read on in medical.
1	When my sister said her breast cancer had metastasized I knew things did not look good. She died ten months later of cancer.
-1	I went for an routine eye examination and the Doctor there saw something that wasn't sure what it was so he suggested that I see a Specialist of the corneas and he even called and set up an appointment and I went and I have Macular Degeneration in both of my eyes and it is the Dry kind.
-1	I have worked for the department of health before and I learned a lot of knowledge thank god for future reference. I now know what my grandmother is going through and how to help her with long term care and choosing different advantage plans with medicare with her extra benefits.  I also have knowledge in medical terms now that I can speak correctly to a doctor and ask the right questions
1	I knew symptoms of a certain problem a family member was having and I told them to go to the doctor to have it checked out.
-1	Too many questions, I am tired, what is this? A test? A joke? I am boring of this, is the worse surver ever
-1	I can't answer this questions because it does not pertains to me, I have a personal life and I'm not comfortable about telling about my health issues to this survey I just don't and I will not give any information about my personal health issues
-1	Im not a doctor you know. So i didnt quite answer the correct ones. I have basic knowledge like every one else
-1	I BASE MOST OF MY KNOWLEDGE ON MY MEDICAL SCHOOLING AND WORK EXPERIENCE. ALSO THE INFORMATION i CAN GET FROM THE COMPUTER.
-1	I can't think of anything really. I know enough to get to a doctor for some things and enough to not run to the doctor every time I have a sniffle. I know that a lot of things can get better without an antibiotic which have been overused.
-1	I am a retired pharmacy technician and worked with doctors and clinical pharmacists in a hospital setting.  I went to pharmacy technician school where I learned many medical terms and uses of medications.  My daughter is a registered nurse and I learned from talking to her.  Also, my grandson is a doctor in residence.
1	I really have no idea what this question is asking of me. I really don't have a lot of knowledge of health or medical issues until one of my doctors tells me about them.
-1	Understanding what happens when I'm going to give birth. I've been through one C-section already and I'll be having a second one soon.
1	I assisted two different friends get their registered nursing degrees by helping them with their course study.  I was especially helpful due my knowledge of human anatomy.
-1	I had been having thyroid trouble for a few years but all my tests came back normal. I had told my doctor to run a certain test I had heard about for my thyroid. He didn't believe me at first but gave me the test and my test results came back positive.
1	Someone on my baseball team was having an asthma attack, and because I knew a lot about asthma I was able to calm him down
-1	don't really have a big example i understand basics nothing really in too much detail i understand when you have diabetes you need to not eat sugar  and exercise to keep a1c at a good level
1	In my educational experiences Ive done very well in my classes related to health and medical issues. As well as how well i comprehend what the doctor is explaining to me the first time.
-1	i broke my elbow many years ago i was informed that they had to remove halfof my elbow and that i needed to take physical therphy
1	in 2003, I had a pain at the base of my spine after one drink. I thought it might have been my prostate and it was. I had cancer.
-1	I was at work and I had trouble breathing. I worked at a clinical I told my Dr. I was having trouble breathing and was sent to the hospital and I had a blood cloth in my lungs
1	None I have no experience.        Nor do I have any impeccable knowledge about the health care profession what so ever I am unaware an I knowledgeable about the inner workings                                                                 
-1	have had no  medical issues so can not answer this question with any valuable answers nothing else to associate this with
-1	Talking to my doctor about various stuff. i dont really know what this question is about i guess blah blah blah
1	Melanoma and now COPD  have been a challange. I am cancer free but the COPD stills governs my life Am on oxygen 24/7.
1	One of my eyes turned very red and it would not go away. I suspected that something was wrong so I went to see my eye doctor as soon as possible.
-1	i have been treated in the hospital several times for heart related issues and have spoken to several doctors, nurses and medical technicians
-1	My daughter just gave birth to my grand daughter. While she was in labor she asked what certain pains were and what exactly was happening and i was able to explain it all to her.
-1	I was on a venitaltor for a few days and very sick for a month or more. I had alot of different tests and doctors taking care of me. I learned alot about the medical field.
1	The only time I've had to do anything that involved knowledge of medicine was in deciding whether or not to take a drug, based on the severity of the side effects.
1	I was at a resort and a wedding was taking place on the beach. An elderly attendee wad struggling and soon passed out. I thought it was heat stroke so we got her inside, removed her jacket and shoes, and applied cold compresses. She regained consciousness before paramedics arrived. Heard later it was heat stroke and she was fine. 
1	I can't think of any experience that would demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I don't claim to be vvery knowledgable about such things.  That't why there are health care providers.
-1	i have diabetes and also have family members with diabetes as well. It's made it easier to know the in and out of taking care of myself and blood sugar levels. 
-1	i got diabetes several years ago and started exercising and eating right and my blood sugar has been normal for many years it takes work and dedication but it can be done im living proof
1	My boyfriend often comes to me with health-realted questions. Both my parents were nurses, so I grew up in a home where we solved our own health problems. I am also interested in natural remedies and research non-pharmecudical cures often.
1	I have an auto immune condition that primarily attacks septuagenarian males. I have studied the condition in great detail using medical resourses.
1	i was able to correctly diagnose the symptoms my cat was showing to determine that she was diabetic and required treatment
-1	I knew that my son needed to have his tonsils taken out. The pediatrician checked and referred me to a specialist. He had his tonsils removed and felt much better. 
-1	When I had knee surgery how much pain I went threw I would not which it on anyone it took me four months to walk again.
-1	I have a pinched nerve in neck and know when inflamation is severe and am able to ease the pain by doing isometrics. I know the immune system requires certain vitamins to be effective. I also think the medical people do not take ordinary people seriously enough
-1	Being a good listener. Read medical material. Try and stay up to date as much as possible. Talk to others on various subjects.
-1	There are no experiences in my life that has demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues so far. 
-1	There was a time when I kept getting sick over and over again for about three months straight. I finally went to the doctor and discovered that if I'd had gotten sick one more time it would've been my last. I was diagnosed with walking pneumonia 
-1	Careful about managing weight and can provide information to others regarding portion sizes, well balanced diets, and healthy cooking techniques
-1	When I was younger I had upper respiratory infections multiple times a year. The doctor would always give me the same antibiotics. I asked if I could get something different, because I learned in my high school class that your body can get used to a specific medication. The doctors agreed with me. 
-1	follow the account of locution sum report of this session command and follow up on how to submerge as long as you get second standard
1	I went to a fertility doctor and all of my results were given on the portal. I had to read through everything and understand my condition and how it can be treated.
-1	I read. And I hate math. I can't do it. I cannot figure percentages, fractions, what % of whatever is how many %. I just cannot do math except add, subtract and multiply. I cannot divide unless it's a very easy answer.
-1	I fell through a ceiling at work and broke all ther bones in my face and spent a few days in the hospital
1	My exercise program was fun but did little about weight. When I tripled the exercise the pounds fell off.
-1	When someone has a headache I know that it could mean a lot of things. Maybe you need rest,fluids, relaxation etc.
-1	I do have any experience of in my life of demonstrating health and life issues. I don't have any issues that are demonstrated.
-1	I don't have a specific experience because I am very hesitant to ask questions of medical professionals 
-1	When I was told I have multiple sclerosis I researched a lot of different sites and articles online.I also bought books that I can read. 
-1	I am aware of strokes and other medical conditions because of my educational background. I have been given the opportunity to understand and receive training on various health issues. However, I do not wish to disclose any experiences in my life regarding medical issues.
-1	I really cannot let you know to demonstrate any knowledge of health or medical issues.  I know I have diabetes 2 and know how to control it and how to test it, but really do not know everything about its
1	When I was on a bike and hit by a car I understood what the loss of a kidney, spleen, and adrenal gland amounted to from a health and medical standpoint.
-1	I have a cousin who is a breast cancer survivor so I know how important it is to have my yearly mammograms.Also I lost another friend to this delay disease.
-1	Run to be a little more time with the wedding is coming tomorrow morning at family dollar store for a few years and I was going to go buy some new outfit if you want me to tell bay friends to tell him I sended think we should have to be a little more than I was going on with the and customer service to you with the wedding is coming tomorrow night at 
1	I have no real health or medical issues that this would apply to. I have an understanding of healthcare issues due to working in the industry 
1	I had hip replacement surgery last September and had a lot of tests on my blood and heart to get okayed for procedure. 
1	When I had cancer, I was able to research and make informed decisions about my care. My surgeon was pleased that I was so well informed about my situation and could participate knowledgeably in decision making.
-1	My standing tolerance to pain had begun deteriorating over the past few months.I noticed that I began to lean foward while standing for a period of time.
-1	My grandmother had open heart surgery, they had informed my parents that during surgery that had to do CPR. She never woke up after the surgery and was in a coma. 2 days later I called to get an update, only to find out that during that time they had to again do CPR 2 times since surgery and that they were having a hard time keeping her BP up without increasing her medications. Informed my parents of the developments and we went up to hospital to talk to the Dr's and see grandmother. We knew this is not what she would have wanted so we asked that no more CPR be preform and the meds no longer be increased. She passed away within a few hours.
-1	Once when I was having lunch with a friend, she started to choke and couldn't breathe. I did the Heimlich maneuver on her and the food shot out of her throat so fast, it flew across the room. She was fine. 
-1	Glory be.  We haven't had that many issues overall, so I don't know what to say.  We are a typically healthy family.  I guess it would be when I get bronchitis.  I've had it so many times, I just know when I have it.
-1	I've had bronchitis many times in life so I know what it is when I get it. I'm always correct when it comes to that
-1	i know just from what i have heard in the past and what i have been thru in the past and that is all i can understand
-1	I have have had several surgeries including a brain tumor. I have had good doctors and bad doctors and have learned the difference.
-1	i fell and tore my left rotator cuff many years ago.up to that point i had never really had any in hospital stay. the operation to correct the problem was more involved than originally diagnosed. i had to due extensive rehab to regain my strength. i gained great admiration for physical therapists
1	I really can't think of any particular situation. I have always tried to learn from my own health issues and from other people's health issues, so that I take better care of myself
1	Having regular doctors visits. Going to college. Researching things on my own. Watching medical related television shows.
-1	I don't have no health issues and I can't tell you what kind of issue will have cuz the doctor told my man good health just need to lose a little weight
-1	When I was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes I knew I would have to take medicine and diet and exercise
1	I feel fully informed about my coronary artery disease.I know about my blockages and the need for me to exercise, eat right, and lower my colesterol level.
-1	When I was 15 I was diagnosed with bipolar. I had to attend doctors offices, labs, and pharmacies instead of dances, and classes.  I had to grow up fast and had to be responsible at a young age.
1	"this is a non issue.  there is nothing in my life that allows me to demonstrate any ""knowledge"" of medical issues. "
-1	my knowledge is just like doctors i look up everything and research everything i dont know. no 1 can know everything!
-1	I just search online or just from being a parent. I have taken enough of my kids to the docotor to know the basics and I know how to tell if something is wrong with me
-1	I have had training as a nurses assistant and also as a EMT- Emergency medical technician. I have had both certifications for 15 years now.
-1	I face issues with my husband every day.  He has dementia which is what makes me anxious. He had gone to a doctor that said his blood pressure was fine that day and he was on medication for high blood pressure.  He told him he can stop taking the pills so we changed doctors.
-1	I am pretty well informed about my personal medical issues and I do look things up in the internet if I want to know about other conditions that I am not familiar with.
1	About 20 years ago I fell down on some ice and broke my right wrist. It didn't seem serious at first but I soon realized that I was going into shock and I knew what to do to not make it worse. I called for help instead of doing something foolish.
-1	Saw a young girl on a bus having a seizure She was on the floor so  I sat next to her on the floor and made sure she could not hurt herself  or choke  until it was over  
1	I have worked in medical field for 30 years before retirement 15 yrs ago.  Tho the actual numbers may be slightly off, they are not likely to be too far off.
-1	Not sure really I judge how I feel and that depends on if I go and receive care I don't bother unless I really feel i need the care and go and receive it
-1	Sometimes i know if i am sick such as if i have a sore throat and a rainy nose constantly. Sometimes i also have a head ache that lets me know i am sick.
-1	My brother in law was told his liver was not functioning properly, kidneys were bear functioning, he had 2.7 pints of blood in his body, and blood pressure was low. I knew with the liver and kidneys not working it would be a down hill battle, because they have to work properly for him to live. He lived 35 day. 
-1	I was given the option to have a procedure done to see if they could get rid of my irregulare heartbeat. I decided not to because it could always come back and I would still have to take medication. I decided there was no upside
-1	I had spinal stenosis and a herniated disc and ended up having 2 back surgeries.  Started with minimal arthroscopic procedure and when that did not work I had invasive surgery that ended up with a spinal fusion
1	I cared for my father after his bypass surgery.  As a result of the prolonged surgery and complications, his foot and hand were amputated.  I was instructed on the treatment and dressing of the amputations, which required saline padding to dry the open foot wound and help seal the wound.  I was also in charge of medications and assisting with all the doctors appointments and other treatments.
-1	dont understand question, but i guess it would be when i had a toe amputated from gangrene as a result of being non=compliant with insulin shots, and became aware of blood sugar totals
-1	i used to work in the medical field. that is how i have vast knowledge that i do. so when i go to the doctor thats how i know what to ask
1	I can't think of any one experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	WHEN I WAS DIAGNOSED WITH BREAST CANCER IN 2012 I HAD NO IDEA WHAT TO EXPECT.  I HAD NO KNOWLEDGE OF WHAT TO EXPECT FOR THE BIOPSY, THE TREATMENT, THE SURGERY, THE RECOVERY, OR THE RECONSTRUCTION. I LEARNED A LOT THROUGH THE PROCESS AND AM MUCH MORE AWARE OF MY BODY NOW.
1	I have learned much about asthma because my daughter has this condition. I have learned about triggers and management as to help her to live with asthma. 
-1	i use google and webmd to figure out most things that i need to when i can't make it to a doctor in time
-1	Any time there was these types of experiences I would actually ask my doctor to help me make sense of this explanation.  I am not college graduate in human medical terminology.
-1	I'm a healthcare professional so I have to use my healthcare knowledge everyday.  Not only at work but at home also.  I noticed certain things in my son as he was growing up.  As he was learning to walk I noticed something was wrong with his feet or his toes to be more specific.  I felt he needed medical help so I made him an appointment with our doctor.  Come to fine out my sons ligaments in his toes where shrinking causing them to curl up under his foot which made it very difficult for him to walk properly
1	Was in a Very, Very Bad Motorcycle Accident and had Many injuries which some are long lasting and still with me for life. I have spent many years in and out of Hospitals and Dr's offices
-1	I was unsure of a lot of these questions mostly because I am terrible at math. It made me anxious because I felt like I was taking a test
-1	I have been diagnosed with Crohn's disease and HLH I see a gastroenterologist and a hematology doctor to stay on top of my health 
-1	When in my middle 50's I began experiencing menopause symptoms. Clearly the symptoms lead to a doctor visit, where I was correctly diagnosed. Prescribed medication has helped somewhat.
-1	i don't know much bout health. i am trying to learn more. i want to be healthier because i believe i'd be more happy. i also believe i'll have way more energy.
1	several years ago, when my mother in law had a very low BP, i called her doctor to indicate I questioned  the medicine as well as dosage he had prescribed for her. She did end up in the hospital with kidney issue. . determined to be resultant from the medicine. Internet as well as old fashioned Merck manual helps provide useful information-not to replace your own doctor's advice of course but helps educate and inform.
-1	I have made many medical decisions in my life. This includes deciding to lose weight to help me lower my blood pressure. I was able to bring my blood pressure down, so I didn't need to go on medication.
-1	Loss of eye, pneumonia three times, father was doctor, various illnesses and surgeries, general interest and awareness of medical conditions and problems.
-1	i don't really know  any be i had a mammograms and it was good and all the other test i took was no problem think God . only my Lupus was bad and i stay in the hospital for a few day
-1	I had been over my periods for several years. All of a sudden I started bleeding again. I knew this wasn't right. It took several tests and trips to the doctor before a confirmation of uterine cancer. Glad I didn't give up.
-1	I injured myself and was sent to a trauma center and the drs. Explained everything to me so I can understand somewhat what my medical issues
-1	I don't know much about numbers but it is explained to me I could understand. Numbers to me is very difficult don't understand much
-1	I was saying little black spots and I knew that this was common with high blood pressure so I went to the doctor and had my blood pressure checked and it was high
-1	My son was not doing well and started to get worse. His breathing increased and I knew that for his age his breaths per minute should be 20-30 but he was breathing about 60-70. We took him to the hospital where the immediately put him on a breathing machine because his breathing was dangerous and if I didn't bring him in when I did it could have been his life.
-1	I'm not sure as to how to properly answer this question.  But I was told I had diabetes and have since been on insulin. 
1	I had a heart murmur that y doctor was concerned about.  I got an echocardiogram that sent me immediately to a cardiologist who sent me immediately to a heart surgeon.  I thoroughly understood that my heart valve was hanging on by a thread and that if it let loose I was dead.
-1	Studied medical coding in college, instructor said I was good at it when I took a test.  Have put ice on when something was swollen
-1	never had to be knowledge about my health or medical issues, i been pretty lucky so far without having to deal with any health issues
-1	i can't really recall much but it was when my mother was having a stroke when i could recognize the symptoms and gel help
-1	I have metal in my lower back and now I have a snapped screw and need to see a surgeon to fix it but I'm afraid to have the surgery because I had problems the first time i really don't want to go under the knife
-1	In a few sentences, please describe an experience in your life that demonstrated your knowledge of health or medical issues. not sure maybe when i was very sick with a migraine for a couple days
-1	Working rescue in the Fire Department providing care to injured and sick people until they could be brought to further medical help 
-1	a few years back while I was working construction I began to notice that I could not walk more than a 1000 feet without extreme discomfort in my legs. I suspected it had to do with circulation since my father had PAD as well as my eldest brother. I was right, and fortunate to find a great vascular Doctor who put two stints in me which corrected my discomfort.
-1	I took care of my sister in hospice during her last months of living.she had terminal breast cancer.I learned alot from the oncology nurse who came to care for her
1	I always go to the doctor with more information and knowledge than she expects me to have.  I had Bells Palsy a few years ago and when I went to see her, I told her what was wrong with me and she examined me and was surprised that I would've known what was wrong.
1	I got multiple medium-sized blood clots in both of my lungs and found out that I have three blood clotting disorders. This experience taught me a lot about blood clotting disorders, blood thinning medications and about choosing specialists.
-1	the only issue that I can think of is when i had preclampst  when i was preganant and i was swollen real bad and did not what to think 
-1	When I had an issue I knew that I could look it up online to see what it was by typing in my symptoms and also by telling my doctor about my issues and seeing what they had to say comated to what I found out
-1	 have minor knowledge through school. An i have other experience just by the medical problems my kids have had in the past
-1	I have depression for the last thirty years. My son went to college and was starting to have anxiety and disturbed sleep patterns. I suggested he see a psych and he was given meds to help him cope.
1	Last year, I began having abnormal menstrual bleeding. Due to my age (49) and how my cycles have been the past several years along with the increasing symptoms, I figured it was the onset of peri--menopause. I was able to track my cycles and give the doctor a detailed description of my symptoms and the issues I was having. 
1	I have firsthand experience with treatment for alcoholism an Co occuring disorders such as mental illness. I have depression, anxiety and PTSD as well as Alcoholism. But it doesn't work to only treat the Alcoholism or only the mental I'llness. 
-1	I seem to know my body pretty well and I felt as if there was something wrong in my brain.  I've had MRIs in the past and there was nothing.  I went to the doctors and he ordered and MRI and I was right there was a cavernous malformation with dva (developmental venious anomily) in my left temperal lobe of my brain.
1	Was feeling tired before an annual checkup. I had a stress test done which indicated an afib problem
-1	I developed Rheumatoid arthritis about 10 years ago and from my research, I found that it is an autoimmune disease where my body sends out white blood cells, which normally only attack infections, to healthy joints causing pain and eventual distortion of the joints affected. 
-1	my family has a lot of health issus and i try to learn about condsitions so i look up imformation  plus i like to tay up to date 
1	I became caregiver for my developmentally disabled younger brother and became completely responsible for his medical care over 10 years ago. He has had several health issues over that time and I have been able to resolve most of those  issues.
1	I was showering and felt a lump in my breast and called the doctor that day. Since the lump was found in stage one. I was totally cured and have lived happily ever after for 20 years. 
-1	My experience as a child sparked a keen interest in how we approach While the problems inherent in our health care system are not If you say that you have perseverance, describe an event in your life that demonstrates perseverance.
1	i have been interested in health because it keeps us moving and going. i think it is cool to understand how the body really works and what we can do to improve our health
-1	skin issues that are described clearly on google or something experienced by a relative prior so i know what to do when it happens to me. 
-1	I was diagonised with high colostral and diabetics  I had a stint place in my heart I was prescribed medine  and excersise daily and to eat foods that would help lower my levels I have accomplished some but others still require work
-1	I really don't know I don't have anything to say. Im not really sure.  All I can say is most of the knowledge that I know is from the internet, that's where I get most of my information from.
-1	when I had a severe allergy attack and knew exactly what I needed to do to help me breath. I also used bendadryl to help me
-1	I dont know.  Sometimes its just common sense.  Sometimes you have to do the math.  Somtimes you just need to think about things to undertstand them.  I dont know if all my answers above were right but if it were scenarios for myself or my own family i would make sure i had the right answers 100 percent of the time. 
-1	My daughter ate at seafood at a restaurant and immediately upon returning home she was violently ill. I determined sha had food poisoning
-1	There were too many situations like that. Example - I explained to the patients the meaning of the consent forms for experimental treatments.
-1	Hillary chance to history spying Can can't vote and felons can,t vote and felons show go down Bill chance with history
-1	ive had sick family members and mulitple visits to hospitals and ive always wanted to know if cures were real but its about maintaining your health
-1	i really dont know. Im not that good at this. my mind get all boggley when I try to concentrate. not really sure why.
-1	I don't know what you're asking me now. I'm getting annoyed with the math questions, so I feel like you're trying to trick me somehow. I am tired and losing focus. 
-1	Seeing that I could not function daily because of depression and needing help to fix it. Being honest that I could not do it all and needed help before things go wrong was what I needed to do. And take time from a demanding job was one of the hardest and most humbling things I've ever done 
-1	I have had many surgeries in my life and use over the counter medication to treat migraine headaches
-1	Having to take care of my dear elderly fater(deceased) now .  The health condition of his health and the ways the doctors prescribed educated me to a certain extent especially relating to congestive heart problems, stroke signs and mini-strokes or TIA's.  My mothers conditions were related to dementia and progressive dementia treatments and care.
-1	I experience ADHD and add, bipolar disorder, depression, and autism so I fell how people are when they have problem in my area.
-1	have no experiences I care to relate and feel it is none of your business this is an intrusive question
-1	I dont know them and I am not good with percentages I always have trouble with this that is why I have my sister and neice with me
-1	When I awoke and found I was ustable on my feet. As the morning wore on and it was getting no better I told my wife to take me to the emergency room. I was diagnosed with a TIA and sent to the hospital for observation and after 3days of further testing that diagnosis was confirmed.
1	When I went to the emergency room and told them I was having pain from kidney stones. I have had several kidney stones and am well acquainted with what the symptoms are.
1	Not difficult at all. I simply followed my physician's instructions.  There have been many lab tests and prescription, along with regular clinic visits.  
-1	well lol  I am not good with math, never have been so this was not an easy survey for me at all, I am not very smart,  so I guess I was just proven that I would not understand  health or medical issues at all never had any reason too figure out  medical or health issues yet
-1	I demonstrated knowledge of my health issues went I was ill and went to the ER to receive treatment, I had self-diagnosed my own problem before it became too serious and told the doctors what was happening. After several tests, the doctors diagnosed me with e problem stated, I had surgery a few days later and then recovered for a few more days before going home to heal.
-1	My mother and father both had catastrophic health issues, my mother emphysema  and my father leukemia and emphysema. I had to learn how to use oxygen tanks and oxygenator machines to help them both. 
-1	I think just knowing my body and any problems I might have has further my medical knowledge in the greatest way because it is the best learning experience
1	 I'm not sure there has been any? Maybe the last time I had to message one of my drs about problems I was having with a new medication
1	Going through the process of being pregnant as a high-risk patient and delivering a healthy baby required reading and filling out a lot of paperwork, in addition to many interactions with nurses and doctors.
-1	I recently went to my doctor who looked at my EKG. He said that I had an irregular heartbeat. I asked him if it was a PVC. He said that I was correct. I told him that I had it before and it went away on it's own.
-1	I am not really sure at all, but nutrition is my bag. Medical issues is not mu=y experites at all. these questions are not for everyone who does know medical issuese.
-1	I am no good at math, that is why I have so many questions. I recently was told by my pharmascist that my mg for a medicine was no longer covered by my insuranse. I asked him if there were any other mg available and yes there was so we worked out to take 3 pills instead of the 1mg that was not covered. Same dosage as before just have to take more pills to get insurance to cover it.
-1	I had a stent in my heart when I was 43 years old do to smoking and bad eating habits and stress in my life so I DO KNOW ABOUT HEART decasie runs in my family  . all of my siblings take perventived  medcenie
-1	Someone I know was showing signs of a seizure. I quickly reacted and got them out of harms way, so that they wouldn't hurt themselves while they were falling.
-1	I had a fever and nausea I was sure I had an infection. And it turned out that I did. I knew from symptoms what was wrong
-1	I have a lay mans knowledge, that said, at the first sign of a health condition for me or for any member of my family I let the appropriate doctor test and diagnose any health problems that may be occurring.
-1	i cant htink of anything. ive never been sick nor has anyone in my family been. we're all pretty healthy.
-1	i have no experince in health knowledge in taking this survey i felt like a completer idiot. I did not enjoy this at all
-1	LOSING WEIGHT AND TAKING MY MEDICINE.  GOING TO THE DOCTOR ON TIME AND NOT MISSING APPOINTMENTS.  TELLING THEM EVERYTHING THEY NEED TO KNOW..
-1	This was one of the worst surveys ever.....I don't need to know statistics, my doctors does and then can explain it so I understand.   This is what doctors are for
-1	I woke up one morning with blood in mu urine. I drank some water and checked the situation, more blood, called the Dr's office explained my sym and got an appointment. I kept them informed until I got to the office and had a series of tests which indicated I had an infection
-1	Been to the doctor plenty of times for multiple reasons as well as going with family for some sort of screening/care.
-1	i had mri while I was in the hospital, they found nothing, they gave me one everyday for 11 Days, I think they should not have given me one everyday!
-1	Currently dealing with a range of issues with the Veterans Administration due to my military serivce.  In addressing each of the issues, I have interacted with primary care physicians, nurses, lab techs, as well as specialists.
-1	On numerous occasions I have read my blood and lab reports which gave the ranges of acceptance.  I worked in a hospital for over 10 years and am familiar with more medical terms than the average individual
-1	I have always done research on what medical conditions are out there and what it would take to be considered at risk for those certain health conditions.
-1	In 2012 I was diagnosed with breast cancer. Since Feb. 2014 I have been cancer free. I been through my share of doctors, nurses, chemo and radiation to know that every single medical person out there has there own beliefs not everyone has your best interest at heart. 
-1	My Husband had numerous health issues. Internal bleeding from and ulcer eating into and artery, lung cancer, heart attack, heart failure, skin cancers, prostate cancer, that had me in touch with numerous doctors and hospitals and learned a lot.
-1	I have worked in the medical field for 17 years I worked in the oncology area and that helped me learn a lot  
-1	My husband has diabetes and I have monitored his health and taught him how to eat better to lower his blood sugar.
-1	My 2 year old nephew was diagonsed with type one diabetes and we have to count his carbohydrates and watch his blood sugar
1	My mother was an office manager for doctors offices throughout my childhood.  During and after high school I worked for her office and handled a lot of medical records.  Because of this experience I am pretty familiar with medical terminology. 
-1	Going to the doctor with my husband for gastro issues and they wanting him on a bad medicine and it was under a law suit.  So I let the doctor know and it was under a law suit. 
1	I was about 30 weeks pregnant and had developed what appeared to be a sinus infection and the beginning of pink eye. I first went to my primary care, who basically just told me to take Tylenol and come back if it got worse. After a few hours though, I knew my symptoms were worse so I went to urgent care instead. This time, the nurse there was much more concerned than my primary care and noticed that my resting heart rate was also high and I was likely getting dehydrated. This was especially concerning since I was pregnant. I knew I should probably seek a 2nd opinion since I looked up my symptoms and observed that they were worsening.
1	That can occur almost daily but the most significant recent event was when my daughter had an emergency appendectomy.
-1	I currently have diabetes.  I have been told and have read literature both online and in physical form, that diet and exercise can be useful in trying to keep the diabetes in control.  So, I try to watch what I eat and try to get some exercise, along with the medication I have been prescribed to do just that.
1	Having mental illness have given me a great understanding of medications and their side effects for my condition.
-1	I only understand what my psychiatrist and therapist tell me because I study psychology. I do not understand anything they say at Patient First.
1	Diagnosed with thyroid disorder in my 20's, I did a lot of reading on the subject in addition to listening to my doctors' disclosures. It prompted me to see my health as an ongoing process rather than a treat-as-needed project. I learned that medical tests are valuable indicators but subject to variables and can point to other issues that might need attention as well.  I underwent treatment that resolved problems at the onset but now am dealing with other issues (40 years later) that evolved from that original treatment.  I experience anxiety over these things but have a lot more knowledge about it all and that makes me feel that I can conquer the problems.
-1	when my grandson developed chrons disease...I have become very knowledgeable about that disease and have come to learn how to do things like giving shots and feeding through a pic line
-1	When a family member had open heart surgery, I was able to ask the doctor questions that helped put the family member at ease
-1	My mother was admitted at a hospital for a long time the then I got chance to visit hospital most of the time and I have gathered knowledge. 
-1	thankfully i have never been hit with a medical life threatening medical diagnosis. I usually see a doctor when I am ill with a common cold. nothing more serious
1	Being diagnosed with breast cancer, brought this disease to the forefront.  After seeking professional health and much personal research, I felt (at that time) I was knowledgeable about it.  Since then so much has changed, that if I was diagnosed again - I would have to start the search over.
1	I have never had to demonstrate my knowledge of health nor medical issues before, just questions about my health whenever I have ever visited a doctor or healthcare service worker.
-1	I took some general health courses thinking that I might go into the medical field. I did not go into any detail but at least got the basics.
-1	My daughter gets ear infections all the time due to having very small ear canals that don't let her wax drain properly.  So in I know when she has ear infections or when one is about to start to know she will need meds.
-1	I contracted shingles almost 2 years ago, it affected the right side of my face and head, I am trying to learn more about shingles on my own as most Drs. know nothing about shingles
-1	Ive had to learn, Im disabled now, so its best to know what I can expect from my disability in the future.
-1	I had to have a biopsy of my breast after looking like a mass was there however after the biopsy it was an infection and easily treated.
1	I used to get vaginal yeast infections a lot. After several times, I read up on it and learned what was a yeast infection and what was bacterial. If I was pretty sure it was yeast, I would by over the counter medication for that. If not, I would visit my doctor.
-1	I don't know much but picking the right doctor important to me they have to be knowable when it my health
-1	I had a sore on my nose and it would not quit bleeding. so I knew it was not normal.  I went to the doctor and he said I was right. I went through getting the skin off my nose by going through a biopsy. The surgeon took all of it off and I am fine now. 
-1	ive been diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis and i have to follow my doctors orders, take prescription meds, give myself a weekly injection and watch my immune system
1	I had been catheterized for a substantial amount of time and was told that I could expect some blood in my urine. I continued to see blood and began to think this wasn't normal. I told my doc, had a cysto and was told I had low grade bladder cancer,from which I have fully recovered.
-1	When I had stage 3 A breast cancer I had to take a lot in tests questions,  a lot of information that I never really uncerstood7
-1	Almost too many to relate.  Because of family history, I have learned that I am a candidate for diabetes and heart disease/stroke.  I have taken steps to make sure that I stay as healthy as possible in order to not get/have any of these.
1	There have been a lot of instances in my life requiring my understanding of medical issues. They have been personal and/or have involved my husband or children. I see no need to parade them for you.
1	Certainly not doing this survey! Numbers and I don't get along, don't know how to work out percentages for most things!!  Can't think of any particular experience where I had to demonstrate knowledge of medical issues.
-1	My recent readings on the A1C tests revealed that my numbers did not reflect a diabetic condition; so I questioned the results with another sugar test and found out that I did not have diabetes.
1	When I was diagnosed with breast cancer, I was told that my onco test was 19.  The onco test is used to determine whether a patient should have radiation or chemo.  The cut off is 18 for radiation is 18.  I was told that there was another test, unfortunately not always available, that was more accurate.  With this test usually someone with an 19 onco test score had a recommendation of radiation.  Since I was only one point beyond radiation, I decided that I would go with radiation.
-1	knowing when to go  to the doctor or emergency room when having unexplained pains or persistent problems that last over time.
-1	When I was a kid my mom toke me and my sister to Dr .when the Dr was going to give my sister a shot see try to run out of room and the Dr pickher up and slam her down . 
-1	I haven't experienced any kinds of health or medical issues in my entire life.  So far, I've been fortunate with my health and I prefer to keep it that way.
-1	This is a bad, bad survey.  I won't answer any of this because this is none of your business.  What more can I tell you?
-1	I don't have any issues but did have a false positive screening for a mammogram which was proven to be wrong
-1	When I go to eat and have to check carbs and calories on a label. I alway check them to make sure they are in the correct range for me to eat. 
-1	i do not have any medical issues . i am a vegan and i try to run and eat healthy as much as i can to stay healthy as possible 
-1	I have medical issues is that movement disorder . i have to take four medicine. I could not sleep well at all.
1	My first husband was diagnosed with metastatic lung cancer and I was able to help him make decisions regarding his treatment options and explain medications
-1	Fortunately I have not had any health or medical issues where I had to use any  medical knowledge I had.
-1	I worked with nurses who provided home health care.  I typed their patient care notes and filed labs, medical orders, put charts in order.  Interesting reading material at times.
-1	i really dont know i know some things but if i want to learn more i look up online to read up on health issues
1	I never had one because I'm not a doctor or nurse or other medical professional. I don't like math or science
1	I have been taking diabetic medication for ten years. I have been monitoring my results weekly and have been interpreting those results each week so I may notify my doctor should they not appear good.
1	When I had to have cervical fusion surgery to fuse discs in my neck--I knew which ones they were & why it was necessary (i.e., pressure on my nerves; nerve damage; pain, etc.)
1	When my daughter was having a hard time eating because her throat hurt I knew that it was likely strep throat or allergies. I took her to the doctor and I was told what I already knew, she had strep throat and was contagious.
-1	I don't claim to be super knowledgeable about the medical field but I understood completely when the doctor says I have the flu 
1	My mother used to be a nurse as did my great-aunt. They discussed operations at the dinner table. I have a good medical background.
-1	I can't think of any experience other than over time knowing what was wrong when my children were sick.
-1	i have high cholesterol and i knew what he was telling me because i had looked up the numbers before hand
1	Did years of moonlighting in hospitals (transcription), diabetic friends/relatives, managing my own rare/incurable autoimmune disorder.
-1	I have asthma so I can tell when I am starting wieh a attack. I willl become short of breath and start to wheeze. the I know to start my meds to prevent from getting anu worse
-1	I am diabetic for 14 years now. I control it with diet, exercise and Metformin. My last A1C was 5.6. My Dr. actually lowered the amount of Metformin to take. I'm very proud of myself for being able to control my diabetis all these years.
-1	I try to watch what I can, read labels if necessary, try to follow dr's orders. My mother was more interested with vitamin supplements and I try to figure out which ones that I need.
-1	i feel like my health is pprettyaverge i like it alot i go to school play footbsall cleanm the house and have the averge health style. 
-1	I haven't really had an experience that tested my knowledge of health or medical issues. The only time I was put to the test would be within school or testing.
-1	When I've had a cold or the flu I used what I know from experience, t.v. and Google that I had it. Then I knew over the counter medicine would help me.
-1	I have some knowledge regarding my health especially my mental health. I am very aware of my depression and anxiety. I am aware of how I am supposed to deal with my stuff.
-1	i have had  a mammomgram to satisfy the doctor that never returns my calls. and could care less bout me.
-1	I came down with fatty liver after my son was born and the Dr told my family I had 3 day to live unless he did certain things that need to be done and my family gave him consent to do whatever need to be done and because of that I'm here today and my son is now 21 thanks to the dr
-1	when i went to the ER for a double ear infection and learned i also had hypertension. i was given a sheet all about it along with the prescriptions.
-1	working in medical records for 19 years  and experiencing maybe miscarriages  - my last one  I knew before the doctor explained to me what was happening.
-1	I really don't know any. I can't remember any at the moment. My memory is bad due to a traumatic brain injury
1	I cannot think of any except when I had a heart attack and I chose to wake my girlfriend to take me to the hospital in the middle of the night rather than waiting till morning
1	When I was pregnant with my second child, I learned that she was breach. I tried to learn all I could about that condition. Although the doctor tried a procedure to turn her in the womb, it failed. I have birth vaginally without anesthesia to a 6lb, 10 oz. healthy baby. I did not have overwhelming fear because of the time I spent learning about the options for breach delivery.
-1	My life has demonstrated medical issues when I started migraine headaches. The headaches affected my daily life.
-1	i can't really recall anything, except once i saw a customer of mine drink part of a beer, begin sweating and start to pass out.  i called paramedics, and he had sunstroke
-1	Scheduled for a colonoscopy and had issues with being put under and not waking up.  Extremely leery of being put under again .
1	I've had several health challenges myself, and I've helped my mom through having cervical cancer.  I've had to handle all these things on my own.
-1	On a camping trip, my riend slipped on a wet rock a twisted his ankle. I disinfected it, wrapped it and made an improvised crutch. I told him to elevate the foot. 24 hours later the swelling did go down.
-1	I was tasked with aiding and caring for my grandmother who was on dialysis. She also lost an eye to glaucoma, helping her with day to day things like taking medication was my job daily 
-1	I was told I had cancer and had to read up on various treatments, where they were performed, clinical trials
-1	when going to the physician with my mother and she is not able to follow what the physician has told her  regarding hr heart function she feels improved heart function mens her heart has been totally healed
-1	Jehovah the same way to your house and it will be the same way to your house and it will be the same way to to do it away. sex and the other half type your comment here topics. sex and and it will be the same way to your house
1	a pacemaker was potentially needed and my heart was missing an occasional beat causing dizziness.  I had a choice of not having the pacemaker or dealing with possibly having more dizzy spells which could start a heart attack or lose of life.
-1	I have always been my Mom's healthcare proxy, involved in her health, surgeries, doctors appointments,  ever aspect. I've always been the one to ask all the questions, and to get her help when and where I could.
-1	I have had a brother go through 2 bouts of cancer and then pass away from a blood clot to the lungs. He completely beat the cancer but developed lung problems after the cancer therapy 
-1	I once had a patient that had just finished up an antibiotic for pneumonia. He looked awful.  I asked him how he felt,  he said tired. I asked if he had checked his bs lately ( he was not great at taking care of himself). Turned out his bs was 400's! He was lucky! Off  to the hospital we went!
-1	I quit going to doctors over 20 years ago.  With proper care, good hygiene and common sense, I believe one is able to care for themselves adequately.  The medical field has become an ineffective maize of red tape and inappropriate control by the insurance companies to control their payouts, often denying patients the best or most effective treatment to preserve their health.
-1	I had been feeling tired and lathargic for several days. I reported this condition to my primary care physician and the next day I obtained a colonoscopy which proved positive. Shortly after I received a colon section.
-1	I can't really explain a time where I was I had the complete knowledge of the medical issue and at the time I really didn't want to know.
1	Requesting my pathology results from my breast biopsies. Since 2 tests were run, only one was evident in my chart. My chemo was written based on that one result,which was not a very reliable test. I requested to see the other results, upon them finding those results, my entire chemotgerapy regimen was changed.i am here almost 7 years later answering this survey
-1	I was sick 3 years ago with hepatic encephalopathy which was caused by having at the time fatty liver disease and my ammonia levels were literally out the roof which caused me to lose my memory, I didn't know where I was or who I was in fact I have no recollection of anything that happened except I also had pneumonia and I was septic which all of those issues combined caused me to be on life support for a time and I had to spend a month in a rehab facility to learn to walk again.
1	Worked in a clinical laboratory for 40 years performing lab tests, also performed quality control and regulatory compliance.
-1	I have had several health issues like TMJ, an abnormal mammogram, on all medical issues, I do my homework from the allopathic to alternative medicine.
-1	I just understand that I am not really know much about all illness questions that I think that I know a lot about them
-1	common sense to read and  think through each question, and basic math skills to come up with the best answer
-1	I've had ulcers, an incurable skin disease, chronic tendinitis, and many issues misdiagnosed which made me become more involved in self management and learning more about my health issues
-1	I had my first back surgery which 2 disc had to be removed.  10 years later, I begin to have the same symptoms that I had with my first back surgery.  I went to a neuro doctor, and sure enough, the other sides of my disc had reptured.  A rib as taken from my upper rib cage and fused into my 2nd and 3 lower disc.  This was 1981.  I do not have any problems today as I am very careful of what I do.
1	Worked as a medical assistant for 5years, had 6 children 2 with neurology problems. One has epilepsy, and one had neurosurgery at 2 months of age for sagital craniostenosis
-1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes I had to start learning more about the topic of medication and about taking care of myself
1	When I had a test for cholesterol, I measured the results against the norms to see where I fit in for each category. When I visit a doctor, I can usually understand what they are telling me and can ask appropriate questions.
-1	I had torn cartilage in my knee and had to have the cartilage scraped and I knew that when it was fdone that the pain would be gone
-1	Medical assistant,vet assistant not sure but worked with dr on clinical duty,and yrs latrr worket for a vet
-1	I learned that while pregnant, you can get anemia. I was one of those people and when I was pregnant I had to take a iron supplement or when I go into labor I would have to have a blood transfusion. Luckily I listened to the doctors advice and came out with two healthy baby girls. 
1	I was diagnosed with familial breast cancer 25 years ago. I had to quickly learn all I could about the disease and its treatment.
1	I cannot think of an experience where I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues. That isn't something I've had to do.
1	I knew how to stop the bleeding on a deep gash . I learned how to do this after taking a first aid class.
-1	I don't have any experiences with the medical profession to be able to answer this question I have been lucky in that matter
1	I am able to set my own insulin amounts by watching my daily carb counts, I have an insulin pump and insulin varies by your daily carb counts
-1	My experience indicates that this is one of the least well constructed surveys I have ever had the displeasure of working on.  Not only are the questions poorly presented the english and grammar is of poor quality.  In summary, this is one of the most disgusting surveys I have ever had the displeasure of completing!
-1	i have had a lot of medical drama in the last ten years in my life and the lives of relatives that seems to never end
1	Both my parents are in the medical field so I have learned from them and been able to use it for choices in my life
1	My wife suffered a stroke while being treated for septicemia. Her bloodpressure was very low (30/60) for over an hour. As a result, she sustained anoxic encephalophy (sp?). Her kidneys had failed, but were returning, and I was able to decide to place her on comfort care because the quality of her life should she recover the use of her kidneys and consciousness would be unacceptable.
1	I have no idea, I guess I know that an appendicitis is a very sharp lower right abdomen pain that when you push on it you feel less pain and when you let go the pain increases
1	I believe just being a parent you learn what is serious and what is a normal thing that the body can recover from in a short period of time not requiring a doctor visit. I don't have a dramatic experience to share.
-1	when I was 17 I was told I needed hip surgery and every thing was explained to me and I completely understood everthing
1	For the last 9 years of my mother's life, I had to be her go between in medical decisions. I had to explain medical issues to her and then help her to decide the proper course of treatment for her.
-1	 im not really sure. this survey required a bit too much math problems. not all ofus are that smart.Imburned out now
-1	My husband recently had laminectomy back Surgery & I had to be very knowledgeable on the surgery, recovery & final diagnosis.
1	Prior to getting married, my husband was diagnosed with testicular cancer.  I went to the medical library at a local college and researched the latest treatments for his particular type of cancer.
1	i know running helps in reducing the hearth risk.. So i keep running. I know when you sprain your muscles you should try and keep it immobalized as possible
1	I recently asked my doctor if I could stop taking one of my three blood pressure medicines because I have lost weight by exercising 3-6 days per week. He agreed that this was a good idea.
-1	I don't know I have worked in the dental field for 25 years and use a lot of medical words related to the dentition but not sure I can answer this question otherwise
-1	When my niece was experiencing symptoms of apendicitis.She was curled up on the couch and had pain when she walked and no appetite. 
1	I have been studying and writing books on natural healing andnatural medicine for over thirty-five years.
-1	Getting a seasonal cold. Drink plenty of water to cleanse the body. The cold will go away at some point.
1	this entire survey is insulting and asinine. I hope it is over soon, because I am getting very tired of it.
1	I have never shown off my knowledge to anyone but myself, so I can't fully answer this question. Aside from simply guessing at people with a potential cold or touch of the flu.
1	Several years ago I had severe bruising on my lower leg from an injury that subsequently  developed some complications. I saw my doctor to get his opinion. When we were done he asked me to explain my condition to an intern in training and left the room. I had to help them with their medical vocabulary several times during the process.
-1	I was diagnosed with testicular cancer and was told that I had two options to help become cancer free. We the information I was giving, i made the decision that I felt comfortable with and I don't regret it.
-1	I don't have any experience that demonstrates my knowledge. I just do what I can to listen and take in information
1	This was harder to complete than I normally expect.  You asked me to do mathematics in a way that I cannot be confident in the outcome.  I will pass on the arithmetic next time, if you don't mind
-1	I can't recall any particular occasions, except when I've suffered from Pneumonia and the physician would not first perform a CT scan immediately (on my spouses and my information) to diagnose me, since my past pneumonia occurrences did not show up with simple diagnostic chest X-rays. After 5 days of my illness, the physician finally did a CT scan and it showed double pneumonia in more than once instance. 
1	I've had an extensive occurrence of medical experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues through schooling amongst other situations.
-1	I had a sharp pain on my right side. I did some research and decided with my risk factors that I probably needed to have my gall bladder removed.  My doctor agreed; however, we both turned out to be wrong. When my test results came back, I actually had colon cancer.
-1	Do we have to get a chance to get into the right questions and make sure you ask all the right questions and make sure you ask all the right questions and make sure you ask all the right questions
-1	i was on a kidney machine for two and 6 months if you dont learn something in that amount of time you were not paying any attention
-1	Some time after getting diagnosed as having gastritis I realized that it was most likely emotional stress that caused it. I know from taking psychology that a lot of illnesses are caused by stress. 
-1	Hmmmm......I am not actually able to think of a specific incident where major medical issues were a threat or present.
-1	when I rode a mechanical bull and was thrown of and broke my ankle.I knew it was broke and found someone to take me to the hospital
-1	i do not have any experiences to list because i do not really have any knowledge in this area sorry 
-1	Enduring drug withdrawal symptoms that forces the body to shut down. Wait until everything restarts then slowly move.
-1	I have had many breast exams and retakes are most definitely done. Simply because I have implants and  you can't get a good picture the first time.
-1	I experienced gallbladder surgery. I had no idea it was possible to have gallbladder surgery so quickly. The symptoms were flu like, so I had no idea I had gallstones. 
-1	I was diagnosed with a hiatal hernia and was given 4 different medications to take by the gastronterologist. I was given a list of foods and other things that could aggravate the hernia and cause the acid refulx to worsen. I cut out all of the foods on the list as well as the smoking and i haven't had any concern in the past year with this issue.
-1	emergency measures of family members and to take life saving measures for them or go to the hospital
1	 i know that my blood presure and weight are corelated. the more i weigh the more likely it is that i will have a higher blood pressure reading than i would  have had if my weight was lower.
-1	I honestly have no clue. I am just a normal person with a normal grasp of health and medical conditions. I am noing special
1	Understand the reasons for specifics diets. Have done independent research to confirm advice given is accurate.
-1	I took health assessments at my previous job.  These make me aware of high cholesterol, blood pressure, and effects of being overweight.
-1	When my husband cut his finger, we wrapped it up to stop the bleeding and kept it above his heart until he received medical attention.
-1	none I CAN THINK OF, DO NOT CARE TO ELABORATE ON ALL MY MEDICAL PROBLEMS AT THIS TIME, I THINK TERE ARE CERTAIN ILLNESSES THAT SHOULD REMAIN PERSONNAL
1	My grandmother has dementia, and my relatives often call me to ask questions about medications and symptoms. Because I work in mental health, I am often able to answer those questions. 
-1	being older you have to keep up on medical issues more take arthris i have it an do a lot of   edcutating myself 
-1	Not long ago I started to feel dizzy and weak.  I knew something was wrong. I called for the EMT myself and was taken to the hospital.  I found out my blood pressure was 221/122.  I knew that dizziness and weakness were signs of a stroke.  
1	I have spent time reading messages on health website describing steps to take to maintain good health such as regular exercise, a good diet, and getting sufficient sleep, etc.  I have followed the advice and at the age of 82 I would say that I am in excellent health able to do everything I want to without assistance. I never get colds or the flu and I'm fully able to enjoy outdoors activities and life in general. So I guess it works. l
1	My total blood cholesterol was a little bit high, but I know that the raw number is not as important as the ratio between HDL and LDL. I explained that to the doctor who agreed cholesterol lowering medication was not necessary in my case. 
1	I had a major surgery and afterwards had to make significant lifestyle changes. This meant exercise, diet and vitamins daily.
-1	I've been pregnant two times so I did a lot of research online and when I went through the second pregnancy I knew most everything from the first.
1	I have had medical issues that i have had to deal with some of these things. I know some basic knowledge but that's about it.
-1	i was a coordinator of clinical trials for stroke both medical and surgical for 30 years at a well known medical center in nyc
-1	Ijust know I listen and watch other people who have had problems and I learn from that Ihave had so many close calls and learned from them
-1	with my sister who has ms and having a uncle that had this also.  The similarities arfe exactly alike
-1	I have just basic knowledge and have not had an experience to share. Once my husband was in pain and I did get him to go to the emergency room and it was his appendix.
1	I don't really have any knowledge I look things up on the computer and try to make since of it. It that's about it
1	My chest hurt and I had chills and then would feel sweaty.  I felt nauseous and my arms were tingling.  As a female, I felt these were possible signs of a heart attack and went to the emergency room
-1	A friend of mine had a pregnancy scare when her menstrual cycle was late; however, she had been experiencing a lot of stress lately, and I told her that stress can often times delay periods. She turned out to not be pregnant even though her period came late.
-1	I know to be careful about blood clots and that I need to go to the doctor if I have a pain deep in my leg and if I feel a bump where the pain is.
1	I was regularly tired and gaining weight.  This did not seem normal to me.  I asked my doctor about it and he tested my thyroid.  It turned out to be hypothyroidism and I was prescribed medication.
1	I cant honestly give you a good answer on that one. I am not the best at understanding the jargon used.
-1	I had an incident when I had a tubular pregnancy and I did not realize it until It had burst.  I was very fortunate to have a doctor that knew what to do to save me
-1	Had my first sciatica nerve attack about 3 yrs ago. Was a full blown one I was in so much pain and could not really tell where it was coming from. My husband thought it was a heart attack.
-1	i don't really recall. i would have to go over health records from the past to determine the answer to that. i don't think i have the data to find the answer at the moment
1	I cannot think of an experience in my life that would demonstrate my knowledge of heath issues. I have not had a lot of issues so therefore not a lot of experience. 
-1	I know some stuff about health and have some knowledge about it. I can talk to my doctor about things and would understand. 
-1	person in our household visited a doctor and the nurse in office did not know how to obtain certain info pertaining to get info from ins comp, subsequently I researched the necessary info and found the correct answers.
1	My little knowledge of health and medical issues come from high school health class and a biology call I took in college.
-1	When I was diagnosed with cancer and had to,under go chemotherapy   I did understand most of the medical,terms used during my treatment
-1	anminec for two years in a row. dr. told me that I needed  a colinestomie. found one  small  poluip. so small he had to put in tat so he could find it. had it removed was cancer but was caught in time
-1	I developed pain in my lower abdomen and with a couple of additional symptoms thought I had a kidney stone.  I did. 
-1	I have had 10 different surgeries for things, I have had type 2 diabetes, obese, hernias, cancer, so I have heard all kinds of different things to be done, or medicines to take.
1	The other night, I was having dinner with extended family, and we were discussing a situation in which a family acquaintance was given something to slow down labor because the baby was not to term yet. My father in law expressed skepticism about what could possibly be done for the child, and my husband (again, he's a doctor) explained that they don't have to delay the birth by much in order to give the mother a drug that will vastly accelerate the baby's ability to breathe outside the womb. I asked if that drug had anything to do with surfactant, and my husband affirmed that it indeed had. I don't remember where I read that information, but I read a lot of medical papers for my work, and I read quite a bit about prenatal development while my own child was gestating. 
-1	Just the basics of understanding what the doctor says and if not understanding asking very pertinent questions.
-1	I don't have any.I only know the things that are told by my doctors and what I hear about but I am a dummy when it comes to most of it.I know a little about the health problems I have but not that much.
1	I was talking to a friend when he had severe chest pains and fell to the ground.  I instructed a person standing nearby to call 911.  I loosened my friend's clothing and shoes and placed something under his head to make him more comfortable.  I reassured him that everything would be fine until the emergency personnel arrived to take care of him.
-1	My husband had an emergency open heart surgery, he had never been ill a day so this was new.  I was able to be the point person and keep documentation, orders, reports, issues, comments, etc. organized and he is not back to 100%.
-1	i have not had flu symptoms but instead of taking a flu shot, decided to go without and did not get the flu.
-1	I can't think of any. I'm not really an expert on health issues. I am schizophrenic and had a heart condition when I was younger, but I have no idea when medical knowledge ever played a significant role in my life.
-1	I do a lot of research on things that I have been diagnosed with. I have a doctor that is very thorough in checking on my conditions. I do have chronic diseases. 
1	my family had many conditions that needed medical treatment and most of the time it did not workday to the lies that the drug companies tell the people to make money
1	As a late teen, my daughter began experiencing frequent fatigue, joint pain, low grade fevers, and some digestive issues. I knew enough to know that something was wrong, but began to suspect that dietary factors were playing a large role in her problems. I based this on the fact that her conditions would improve over the summer breaks from college, when she was eating a healthier diet (home as opposed to dormitory food).
-1	I have very few experiences with any medical issues. I never had surgery, I never had any bones broken, I go to see doctor for regular annual check up 
-1	I can't think of any experiences in order to give an answer. So this does not pertain to me. Maybe knowing how to fill out the paper work other than that I have no medical problems that I had to deal with.
1	Sometimes it is very confusing or I do not pay enough attention or do not have desire to calculate due my  low interest to this problem.
-1	"An accident in 1968,home on leave from the U.S.Navy,I took my brother for a ride,suggested by my mother,and hit a tree.I had to have ""Trake""performed on me,since one lung had collapsed and the other was filled with blood.To make a long story short when bandages were taken off,back aboard ship, ""Proud Flesh"" had replaced actual flesh covering the hole in my throat.The corpsman cut it all out with a scalpel.On a scale of 1 to 100 on trusting doctors my trust is about 15 ......on a good day !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
1	I raised seven children in a remote area. Our physician had me keep various medicines on hand to use until a child could reach a hospital. I had to know which medicine to use in a given circumstance, the weight of each child and how much to give according to their weight. 
-1	I was getting a pap done and was told I had cancer. it was a very difficult time for me to go threw. I was all alone and had Noone to help with the process 
-1	high blood pressure do not like taking pills wish i could get off of them i hate taking pills heusj hdfstsb jdirhhnc htrr
1	Two years after discontinuing some cholesterol medication I had a heart attack and that experience made me more aware of the need to keep my arteries free of plaque especially after viewing the angiogram printout of the blocked artery that cause the MCI in the first place.Fortunately no damage was incurred on the heart muscle.
1	I have researched issues that can occur as a result of gall stones (which I have), and discussed them with my doctor.
1	A friend was having epigastric pain that I thought was probably a gall bladder attack and it was. I practiced nursing successfully for over twenty years
-1	I recall getting a positive reading from a lab result. I knew it was a false positive because the diagnosis required specific exposures. Since I did not engage in these specific behaviors or in a specific location, I was not worried about the results. Further testing provided a negative result.
-1	I thought I had breast cancer but I don't and it scared me a lot and to withyour family a lot. More and tolove them a lot more in life
-1	Had surgery on gallbladder was in. A lot of pain but need relief so surgery was my only option I went along with the procedure and 19 years later I feel wonderful 
-1	when i know how to calculate how many carbs do i need to consume everyday to lose some weight and what is the best thing to east and what should i be avoided
-1	I really can't think of issue that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I haven't had any serious health issues
1	A few months after starting new medicine regimes I started getting very ill, pain, tired, etc.. I soon noticed it was worse twice a day...after my doses. I started research when I felt good and learned through the NOTES of a clinical study for one of my meds that in a very few folks the drug reacted poorly with NSAIDs and resulted in low blood pressure. Mine was 60s/30s. No more pain meds, solved!
-1	I can't describe a situation In my life that demonstrated knowledge of issues . Maybe taking birth control for estrogen loss 
1	My 2 yo child cut his foot on a metal door - I cleaned his cut with water, applied ointment and placed a water-tight bandaid on the cut.
-1	I currently suffer from Urticaria and learned from my own research that it is related to high levels of histamine and lack of dao enzymes
-1	I am going to be a good time for health issues when I was in the doctor appointment cause it is too much sometimes for people to go so much I am healthy
1	Simply being able to have conversations with doctors during appointments or speaking with people who are sharing their medical problems is evidence enough that I have a socially acceptable level of health knowledge. 
-1	I just feel that doctors aren't very trustworthy. I only visit the doctor if there's something I can't treat myself. I view doctors as a part of the problem not the solution.
-1	Can't really think of anything unless you count the time my sister was pregnant and had mastitis. Her breasts hurt her so I told her to go and put warm wash clothes on her nipples to open the poors up. She didn't listen to me as usual so she put up with the pain. That's what hard headed little sisters get when they don't listen to people.
1	I have chronic asthma. There are always new drugs or inhalers on the market for long-term prevention. I've done my own research and what works and what has the highest risks so I can talk with my allergist about what's best for me. 
1	I don't really have any. I've been very fortunate. I have a MBA and a BS in Computer Science so I have some level of knowledge. 
-1	when i was told that i had fibromyalgia    i made sure i became as educated as possible   i read articles   joined support groups and kept in touch with my doctor
-1	High blood pressure, have a higher chance to have ovarian cyst problems, prone to have high risk to sinus infections 
-1	the only problem i hVe ever had is my apadx. i could tell you that is no fun and go to Tbe Dr imatily
-1	I really dont have any expereinces like this. I trust medicalprofessionals that have knowledge of health and medical issues
-1	I honestly can just say that when i understand what a doctor says to me about my health or condition is the only knowledge I would have.
-1	my husband cut his nose on the glass in our  headboard during a night mare.It required a trip to the ER for X rays and stitches. 
-1	Participating in health care services gave me experience in health issues as to how to maintain balance in the body system 
1	Understanding that my mother's forgetfulness and confusion in the late afternoons/evenings is sundowners and is typical of someone with semile dementia
-1	personal experience to demonstrate my interests and strengths and to acquire the knowledge and ability to help those in need. Talk about my talent, skills, knowledge and highlight of my strengths
-1	Nothing more than going to the dr for myself and with family members and researching information on the internet
1	My wife had an ileastomy and started running a fever of 104 and became delirious. I kept telling staff 104 for my wife was the same as 105 for a normal person because her normal temp was 97. We finally found a red swollen spot in her incision, called in the surgeon, and he drained over a quart of pus from an abscess that had formed.   
-1	I have addressed these in many clinical settings while attending nursing school. Specifically, reguarding education on pregnant women.
-1	when my mother in law had a serious stroke that almost took her life in just minutes she had a blockage
1	I was able to agree with the doctor that although my labor was not progressing, she would start me on pitocin and would turn it off after I reached 5 cm so that my body could take over the cascade of labor. I was able to talk through the risks, understand the goals, etc. 
1	I know how to control my blood pressure and how to manipulate muscles to releave tension knots and spasms. Can also do minor spinal alignments on others. Have learned and still use techniques of spinal alignment on my own neck when it is needed. Can and do work out kinks and cramps in my own body when muscles ache.
1	I have been able to almost completely reverse all of the symptoms associated with my lyme disease, including but not limited to, heart palpitations, insomnia, restless leg syndrome, depression, muscular and skeletal pain, headaches
1	I've had a lot of issues with stys lasting for several days or weeks at a time. Many  times I've woken up with an uncomfortable and sore Eye and I used a hot compress on It and I believe I prevented a stye from occurring on multiple occasions.
-1	My cousin was uninsured and couldn't get to the Dr, he was barreling a series of health concerns, he called me to inform me of the situation, and I told him what I thought was wrong with him. Several days later his condition worsened and he was forced to visit the hospital, when he did he was diagnosed, which East he same diagnosis I gave him.
-1	I was first diagnosed with connective tissue disease many years ago. Then I saw another rheumatologist who describes my condition as lupus. After that, a specialist said that I have RA. I have fairly thoroughly read up on auto immune diseases as these doctors looked at me over the years. 
-1	When I was in high school I took a class called medical careers for 1 year to help me prepare for a future in the medical field.
-1	have 2 terminal incurable but treatable conditions, some allergies and a manageable blood pressure problem, plus helped both parents and a number of friends understand their medical conditions, treatments and options as well as plenty of medical bills
-1	I don't feel I have a knowledge of health or medical issues. I do read and research online . I have a very basic knowledge 
1	With careful diet and exercise and the help of a statin medication, I was able to lower my total cholesterol from 325 to 88 in less than 2 years.  I have now maintained that level for more than 2 years.
1	I have anxiety and my daughter also has it so I was able to give her some good tips on how to work through certain issues
-1	My doctor did surgery on my feet because my arches fell and I was in severe pain. I knew something was wrong with my feet for years, but I waited to go to doctor. 
-1	I gave cpr to a relative that had a heart attack a number of years ago. Recently I helped my aged mother find a new doctor and reported unusual symptoms whenever they appeared
-1	I was told that I have Diabetes type 2. I was subscribed a medication which helped lower my A1C. After taking this medication for 10 years and learning what to eat, my A1C was at 5.9 and dropping, so my doctor said to stop taking any more medication for my diabetes. I have kept my A1C at 5.6 since I stopped taking the medication.  .
-1	Constant care for my mom who has metastatic lung cancer, keeping up with drug interactions, side effects, dosage reduction, and keeping her doctors informed across all platforms of care
1	I am a lone non-smoker in a family of smokers; holding steadfast to never smoking has resulted in my current high level of health. Other than that, I am not sure what you're asking. An example would have been helpful.
-1	I have no idea. I don't have any knowledge of medical terms at all. I was raised as a Christian Scientist
-1	I have a ependix that was to be removed but do to high risk of me not living through it I still have it now as of today.
1	I would have to say when my daughter was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes.  I knew the signs because my son had also been diagnosed with it a few years before her.  I knew what the symptoms were.  
-1	A friend called me one day. She was concerned because. Her husband had a wound that was red and swelling. I told her to take him to the doctor because he had and infection. He may need it drained and take antibiotics. 
-1	I have diabetes and take pills and insulin with each meal. I have to decide how much insulin to give myself, depending on what i am about to eat.
1	When I had to talk to a pregnant friend about options for childbirth and making sure that she is consuming the appropriate amount of water daily.  
1	I've never had any issues with understanding medical issues that have happened to myself or others in my family.  My familial health issues have ranged from heart attacks to high blood pressure to glaucoma, to Alzheimer's to cataracts to Parkinson's to various types of cancer.  
-1	Father has been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease and siblings and I have been diagnosed with major depressive disorder, all take medications 
-1	working at a nursing home i take care of several health issues and learn a lot of health info i have to know certain ways to deal and take care of patients
-1	I have only had a few cats because they have all lived 18 years because I did research when they had a medical problem  and by learning about pets I have also learned about my own medical problems
-1	I don't have much knowledge regarding health or medical issues.  I am pretty healthy and try to stay that way.  I don't believe in taking medication unless absolutely necessary.  I would rather change my diet etc. rather than medication.
-1	I can't say I've really had one that I can remember.  Nothing is coming to mind.  I am familiar with my pregnancies, allergies, when somebody needs to make a visit to the doctor.
-1	Dad was older. Noticed his breathing was hard to do. Called 911 anyhow and found out he was in heart failure was hospitalized and made a full recovery because I went against his wishes. I was very haappy
1	I was able to identify my sickness by searching about the causes and symptoms on the web and I was glad that I knew it ahead of time before I went to te doctor.
-1	I had a very close friend that was choking on a piece of chicken breast while dining out.I way able to help by doing the manuiver
1	I have had many medical issues from the time I was six months old, and was a licensed massage therapist which includes education in all aspects of the human body and anatomy & physiology.  I have extensive knowledge of health and medical issues.
-1	anytime my children get sick or hurt I need to use any amount of health or medical knowledge I have in order to care for them properly. I have to clean wounds, bandage, give medicine
-1	I can not remember an experience that demonstrates my knowledge of health of medical issues It is not something I generally think about 
-1	The little engine that could.  I think I can.  I think I can.  I think I can.  Choo! Choo!  I think I can.  I think I can.  I think I can.  Anyway, the power of the mind is really overwhelming at times to the good and the bad.  I know there were times when I thought all hope was gone and then wouldn't you know I found a purpose after all.  I think they call it the Department of Labor.  And also just being nice to somebody and making them feel welcome.  Like really just being a good person.  I find there are so many affiliated people that the first amendment is actually twisted to fit their preference.  There are definitely more then enough racist people in America.  Seriously how many are for the president?  Obesity is just the first sign of irresponsibility.  And then it goes the other way skinny people.  Oh my god such negative attitudes.  They really want whats worse for you.  I say there is always room for success.  Not according to these people.  Life to them is final destination.  I am still trying to figure what it is that the cops even do?  Law and order are essential.  Or try the other way and see what happens.  Either way life is a risk but more so if your a criminal.  I am a recovered drug addict, sex pervert and thief.  Rules are great I look forward to following them now.  
1	received a bad cut on my hand, needed to stop bleeding first, have stitches  put in to keep wound closed, use proper sterial methods to prevent infection, get tetnise shot. 
1	My doctor was attempting to treat me for poison ivy due to a rash that was spreading over my arms and face. I kept feeling worse and worse. I went to a different doctor and was hospitalized for kidney failure. I did not have poison ivy.  
1	RADIATION AND CHEMOTHERAPY SHOULD NOT BE USED TO TREAT CANCER. PURE OXYGEN THERAPY WILL ELIMINATE CANCER ALONG WITH A DIET THAT CONTAINS VITAMIN B-17.
1	recent cataract surgery based on opthalmologist's recommendation. would not have done it without her advice. 
-1	I have not had an experience in my life that would require me to demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	I'm not this smart.  I need a Dr to help with this topic for he went through medical school and is more knowledgeable than I.  He doesn't many years in education to be able to oculists so many people
-1	I studied and now work in the healthcare field  .I am always learning more each day.  Never ending process,
-1	I do not know anything about health or medical issues I am about as knowledgeable as they come which to me means nothing so I do not have any knowledge at all 
-1	old man was not eating and would just look out in space had to have help to bathe and take his med after three days took him to doctor and found out his sugar was high and the old man machine show he had normal sugar 
1	 well for instance today my husband had 9 teeth pulled out and he kept saying I have a blood clot hanging out of my gums. I told him a clot is a mass of blood. That he more likely had a hematoma which I don't think he had either but that would be more likely than a clot if it was hanging down
-1	Not much knowledge so I didy know much. Basic things yes, some of that I didn't know. I'm notvery interested either.
-1	Was having trouble breathing. Did some quick research and discovered that I must quit smoking and loose weight. After these are under control I should start exercising regularly 
1	I once was certain that I did not have allergies. I went to the doctor to have a scratch test. I proved positive regarding multiple allergies thus I know much less about medical issues than I thought.
1	My mom died of cancer. She ignored bleeding to death two weeks out of every month for two years. She went in for a hysterectomy and the surgeon sewed her back up and sent her home for hospice. Denial is a horrible thing.
1	I have been very fortunate in my adult life and have faced no serious health events. I would say that I got some confirmation of my knowledge when a doctor recommended certain supplements that I was already taking on my own.
1	I have told several people they were probably low thyroid based on some answers to questions.  They were tested and I was correct.  I'm brilliant!
-1	there is really nothing in my life that demonstrates this other than the fact that I am able to take care of most of my medical problems on my own.
1	I was diagnosed with cancer at the base of my tongue. Listening to my doctors about the different courses of action available helped me become more knowledgeable 
-1	I try to stay on top of things concerning my health and general well-being. I google a lot about different medical conditions...
-1	I can not think of any thing to say to this question but I hate typing and this is too much typing and I took 3 yrs . of typing because my DAD said that all women should type and it give me a head ache if I have to type too much.
1	I have a strong knowledge of how to keep my body performing.  What I need to eat on a daily basis to keep my digestive system normal, the amount of protein, etc.
1	Field located in Sacramento, CA. All you can eat BBQ will begin at 6:00pm and the baseball game will begin at 7pm. All employees are welcome to bring you, plus one guest, and your children! 
-1	I really haven't had one because I followed the instructions from the doctor and basically that was the jist
-1	Hard to tell, really. We all develop a base of knowledge throughout life that pertains to health and wellbeing but i don't associate such knowledge as being remarkable.
-1	never did i have anything like this to descibe so do not have an answer for this questionnothing but maybe a cold or flu knew what to do for the most part
-1	When I was urinating and I felt a burning pain I knew I had a urinery track infection so I went to my doctor he took some test and I was right he prescribed antibiotics and I got better in a week
-1	we had great health insurance until obamacare and now they are trying to fix it and democrats will not let them. we will use our health insurance once it is cost effective for use. no reason to find out you have something wrong with you if you can not affored to be treated for it.
-1	from what I have read on the internet about the BPH that I have and what the Doctor has told me about it, it looks like to me that my complete change of life style is the best way to correct this problem
-1	I'm not really sure.My mother and husband have diabetes so I know a little about that.I have high blood pressure as does my husband and mother so i'm a little knowledgeable about that.
1	In my experience, I have lumbar spinal stenosis. I have the bottom four discs herniated. I've had denervation, epidurals and injections to reduce inflammation. None have worked. I need laser surgery to fix it. 
-1	I worked at an assisted living center and had to call emergency services for a resident who was incoherent, part of his face was sagging, was driving his scooter in his room in a random manner and dragging his catheter on the floor. I told them I felt he had had a stroke. I was right.
-1	I'm healthy and I have no problem with my health far as I know. There is nothing wrong with me. I have no medical issues
-1	When I had atrial fibrillation ,knew I had to get to emergency care but was leery to go because of previous episodes and they did not figure it out .
1	I have injured myself, through walking, hurt my ankle and foot. Had to get home, take ibuprofen for an antiinflammatory, wrap the foot with a wrap, not too tight, but firm, and then seeing as that provides a cloth layer, put ice against it to help any swelling go down.
1	It is not so much my knowledge of health or medical issues that serves me well, it is my schooling background. Having a strong foundation in mathematics teaches you problem solving skills, being able to assess a situation, maintain clarity identifying relevant information, and systematically arriving at the correct solution. I have found these skills transgress to other aspects of life.
-1	My husband has been diagnosed with afib, I knew 165 beats per minute was way fast at the same time his blood pressure was low something with his heart was way wrong. Also a younger sister dropping weight struggling to breathe I knew it had to be lung cancer, tried to prepare her for that.
-1	I had elevated serum calcium, elevated PTH levels and low vitamin D levels. My reading suggested primary hyperparathyroidism and I discussed this with my doctor and requested additional testing, which was done and did show that I had had this problem. It was surgically corrected.
1	My husband dies of kidney cancer. I became very familiar with the progression of that type of cancer, the symptoms, the treatments.
1	I had chest pain and numbness in my left arm. Been complaining for years. Workers comp kept telling me it was carpel tunnel. Ended up having bypass surgery at the Mayo Clinic. My personal doctor finally asked at a physical if I was still having chest pain. They FINALLY did a stress test. Two parts of my heart were not lighting up. (not getting blood flow). They did not even bother running the test. Maybe because I was a woman, not terribly old, I don't know why they would not order a stress test. But I am glad I never let them do carpel tunnel surgery.
-1	Diagnosed with breast cancer and understood the concept, treatment options, surgical procedures and the need for an aggressive approach. Understood side effects of chemotherapy after reading information and discussing with my doctor 
-1	I have been visually impaired all my life so I know more than the average person about the eye and how it works.
-1	I have been in charge of my health and the health and safety of my family.  People also come to me when they struggle to understand. 
1	when my mother was fighting cancer going over the weeksly blood results , white blood cell count and so on
-1	Husband was recently ill and hospitalized and I was the one to interact with the doctor/nurses to facilitate his care.
-1	My husband wad letheric and his back hurt and he also had no appetite.  I suggested he be checked for lung cancer.  He was found to have cancer.
-1	I was able to look up my symtoms before I went to the doctor and got the real reason what was wrong with me
-1	I had surgery on my right knee to remove floating cartilage .I understood why it would not cause anything other than the 3 scars. 
-1	I use to be a CNA, so I would take care of elderly patients either in the home setting or in the hospital care setting. So I do have medical training, though Ive been out of it now for about 12 years. 
1	I have worked in a pharmacy for 18 years and have had to deal with numerous health issues at work.  was a regular visitor at emergency rooms with my children and their problems
-1	I have CKD,IBS,RLS,GERD,Sinusitis,Angina,and,I am on dialysis,now.So I see drs at least 1-2 times a month
1	I am taking care of my mother who has a history of blood clots and Hypertension and my husband has diabetes. I have Lupus. 
1	Needed a hip replacement and was told the Dr. would do the Posterior Approach.  Upon doing research, I found that the Anterior Approach was far better for me and my recovery.  So my search began for an Ortho who did the Anterior Approach which was not available in my town/hospital as it requires a special table in the OR. My recovery today is 100% and others I know who had the posterior done are still limited in their activities or still have pain.
1	I have worked as a CNA in the past and have seen many health isssues handled both for the good and bad and been ignore by nurses and even doctors when I mentioned an issue a pstient was having that should have been addresssed before it got worse
1	I had a hiatal hernia operation and went through it well, learning all about what it was and what the surgeon would do, etc.  Recently my sister had the same condition and I was able to explain to her what was happening, why she need the surgury and what to expect.
-1	I HAD AN ENLARGED PROSTATE AND IT WAS RECOMMENDED THAT I HAVE TURP SURGERY SO I LOOKED IT UP ON GOOGL TO SEE WHAT WAS INVOLVED AND SIDE EFFECTS SO I COULD QUESTION MY UROLOGIST ABOUT IT WITHOUT SENDING STUPID.  I ASKED MY CARDIOLOGIST ABOUT THE RESULTS OF MY HEART CATH AND WHAT NEEDED TO BE DONE AND HE EXPLAINED WHAT NEEDED TO BE DONE AND BY WHOM AND I ASKED HIM THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN HIMSELF AND AN INTERVENTIAL CARDIOLOGIST AND HE EXPLAINED IT TO ME.
-1	i was told in my early twenties that i would have diabetes if i did not change my drinking habits.  i changed to diet drinks and i was able yo live another 30 yearsbefore the diabetes came.
-1	at one time i had a buzzing in one year.  it was found that i had severe alergies tp walnut and chocolate.  when i stopped eating those items the buzzing stopped.
1	I broke two bones in my hand. The doc showed me the fractures on the x-ray and we watched the healing process over 8 weeks and three additional x-rays.
-1	I am sorry but I do not have an example or experience that I wish to document or discuss that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues.  
-1	An experience where I demonstrated knowledge of health is when my boyfriend who was 21 at time was diagnosed with diabetes. I was able to help him with insulin and help keep him on a strict diet .
-1	It took a year for the doctors to determine what I was allergic to.  So I have to be very careful what I eat.  So many foods that people make, they make it different than what I would normally use.  So therefore I do ot eat something that I do not know what the ingredients are.
-1	A experience that demonstrated health knowledge would be when i took care of a transplant patient to get his fever down, i ran the air, did everything the doctor told me too and used  cold ice.
-1	My dad had a mole on his back, it didn't look normal, his doctor said it was fine.  My mom and I insisted it wasn't right.  The doctor biopsied it and it was in fact melanoma.  Had the doctor not listened to us who knows what would have happened.
-1	I was  diagnosed with prediabetes and I know my family has a history of diabetes. I was told that I can get over the pre-diabetes stage by dieting and exercise and that is a known fact because studies have shown this to be true. I did diet and exercise and my blood sugar is in normal range.
1	I used a thermometer to measure my significant other's body temperature. The temperature was 103F. We went to the doctor immediately.
-1	my partner has lung cancer & I went to his appointment with him & talked to his doctor & then explained his diagnosis to him
1	A relative had UTIs that wouldn't go away after her doctor had her on several antibiotics.  I asked if she tried cranberry, and she hadn't, so I did some research online and found a store near her that had a good quality cranberry concentrate, and told her about it.  She tried it, and, along with the last round of antibiotics, she no longer has UTI.
-1	I havent had that experience before and so i cant describe what it would be its great and fulfilling
-1	I never had to really experience it. This type of thing never really happened so I don't know what to say. Like I have but I just don't remember so that's why I don't know at all.
-1	I know how much insulin to take if my blood sugar keeps rising.  I check my blood sugar often to know how much to take & how long it takes to work in my body.
-1	I read alot of information on different medical problems that might require That I might ask a doctor about
-1	I have had to take care of my mother who had meboltic syndrome and my son had many health issues growing up 
-1	That I could run 1 mile and a half, without stopping. Yes, I was tired after the run, but I still maintained my health, afterwards.
-1	I have had quite a few surgeries. I have been hospitalized many times for physical or psychological reasons. I have studied to be a surgical tech, thereby learning medical terms or procedures. I am not practicing now.
-1	It is a family culture taking care of our health, so nothing specific happened, when ever I read new information , I try to understand it
1	I have had multiple issues over the years that have required many procedures and medications.  Each time I am referred to a new specialist I am able to discuss my history very well.
-1	When my son was born he had a heart murmur and I researched and found all that I could about the murmur its self all the medical care and education I needed 
1	My grandmother had a heart attack and was passed out.  I called 911 for an ambulance.  I was able to administer CPR and get her conscious again.
-1	I don't know what kind of knowledge about my health issues you want to know about if you want to know about health problems what kind
1	Experienced periodic problems with vertigo. After one severe attack did some research and learned about a condition called Meniere's Disease. My belief that I had this condition was confirmed by a doctor who was able to put me on a medication that had controlled this condition. 
1	I have had numerous relatives experience fatal symptoms which led to death.  In most circumstances I was aware of what was happening.
1	Had a CAT scan which showed nodules. This could be caused mainly by three things. I now have enough information about nodules
-1	Having the brach analysis done. Knowing that if I'm positive I need to take action immediately for precautions to stop breast cancer.
-1	My husband was diagnosed with restless leg syndrome. He said he felt like he was walking on glass. Because I have MS I know what neuropathic pain feels like and I knew that wasn't restless legs. He was then diagnosed with neurosarcoidosis.
-1	I got conjunctivits from a preschooler that I taught.  I saw the doctor and knew that I would need eye drops to cure the disease.  What i did not know was that I was allergic to the drops that I was prescribed and found out that i was allergic to sulfur.
1	I have several medical conditions that have resulted in a hospital stay; and require medication and regular doctor visits. 
1	There was a time in my life when I was sick all the time anemia, pain all the time, frequent rounds of bronchitis, digestive problems and allergies.   The doctors just kept giving me more medicine and I kept being sick.   I had 3 children and did not have time for all this.   I started researching and went to natural ways to take care of my body,  diet, exercise, herbal supplements.   I found out then I am responsible for my health.
-1	When I had hip replacement surgery, I went online after talking to my doctor and watched videos of the actual surgeries.  This was very helpful in my making the decision to have the surgery or not and what to expect during and after surgery.
-1	Telling a friend to be retested for hiv knowledge of mistakes made in veterans hospital. Contamination of test give wrong outcome
1	Researching, consulting with my doctor, and making a decision on my treatment for prostate cancer when it was first diagnosed
-1	At this time I can't really think of anything. The only thing of is when my son jumped off the porch just after his dad had just finished mowing. He landed on something and it went through his shoe and into his foot. I took him to the ER and they were going to try and get it out. Well I know they do xrays through a splint so they wouldn't see the stick in his foot.
-1	when i had my first baby, I understood everything that was going to happen in  a normal birth. When I had my 2nd baby, I also understood everything about that birth also. When I had my 3rd, I had to have an emergency C_Section and really didn't understand that, and didn't have time to understand it..Now I do of course...
1	When my nephew was suffering from an eye injury, the er doctor recommended a band aid without running an mri. the mri showed a fracture that the doctor would not have caught without the mri
-1	i havent had any significant experience in my life that i really had to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	I have a friend who has high blood pressure and diabetes and I wanted to inform myself of the causes and risks for my age group  
1	I was diagnosed with high cholesterol about 2 years ago.  I since have changed my diet to include more healthy fats like coconut oil and olive oil and avocados.  I have eliminated sugar and reduced saturated fats.  My cholesterol levels dropped, my HDL levels increased dramatically and my triglycerides decreased quite a bit also--improved health!
-1	One time, I passer out and hit my head while at work. Later on, I was told that I had syncope. I had knowledge of this issue and knew how to effectively treat it to prevent it from happening again. 
1	I know my body very well. I started to have some palpitation that I felt wasn't due to exercise or stress. I let this go on for a few days to see if something was just out of normal. When it didn't stop I went to the ER for a stress test and it turned out I had Afib
1	My parents are both nurses so they've informed me about reading nutritional labels and exercising and all that
-1	I can't think of any for myself.My mother had thyroid and breast cancer in her lifetime and I think we all learned some from that.
-1	I don't think I had knowledge about health because i've never really been in a health or medical issue whatsoever
1	When I regularly consumed fiber supplement and took calcium supplement to aid in the prevention of colon cancer, which runs on the male side of my family. I believe this helped me avoid such cancer.
1	I have had open-heart surgeries so I can follow doctor's instructions.  I also know to ask questions if I do not feel comfortable with the information given to me.
-1	i have worked in a medical field for 20 years  I have seen heart attacks I have seen diabetics sugar dropped.  I pretty well know what to do on a lot of stuff.  There are a lot of things to that I would not have a clue in what to do.
-1	I am in the UNITED STATES ARMY. I have 2 1/2 years of experience. I will be retiring from my career. I have seen a lot of things that would make a grown man cry. 
-1	Was feeling dizzy when I walk around my house,  went in to have my blood pressure checked to see what was wrong.  Had a helicopter ride to another county to have a pacemaker implanted 
-1	I was told to do research on endometriosis and i was able to do the research and understand to a certain extent the information i read.
-1	My experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my father was dying of cancer.  I realized how precious life really was and that you cannot do anything for them.
-1	Caring for my Mother In Law, Father In Law, and Mother. Overseeing a vast amount of medical procedures and medications for each of them.
1	Psychiatrist attempted to diagnose me with seasonal depression. I told them that they were wrong and that my symptoms are more indicative of bipolar disorder. I was correct.
-1	I demonstrate knowledge of health with my kids all the time. Especially if they are sick and not feeling well, I generally know what to look for and how to help get them better, and if I can't we go to the doctors.
-1	i always looked up the information about health issues in my computer and have always been able to find the information i needed on time. 
1	When my husband was in the hospital and was ordered to a telemetry ward a mistake was made and he was placed on a normal ward. Because I know what the orders where I was able to get him put in the correct unit. 
-1	My sister was recently diagnosed with brain cancer, although they removed the cancer (they think completely) she is still at risk and is currently under treatment. I fully understand what the treatment is and what she is experiencing.
-1	I can not think of an event where I had to display any of the medical information I have obtained. I just try to research when information is presented so I can be knowledgeable the 
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of a health issue was when I was diagnosed with migraines. I was knowledgable about causes and treatment options
-1	per your example, if i had a temp. of 100.4. if i were unable to reduce my temp, be cooling down my body temp, and/ or taking something to reduce it. i would then call the doctor
-1	I lost my hearing due to spinal meningitis at 18 months old. I'm at risk of cardiovascular issues with my grandmother having a stroke and my homozygous MTHFR gene mutation that causes blood clots.
-1	having a grandparent who had diabetes was very hard I had to made sure she gets her insulin shots and make sure eat
-1	my dression at 12 and my pectus reconsution suergy plus a whole lotta of pills for my schiophreniza and I took a lot of pills too
1	When my daughter had a brain tumor, I spent days reading medical studies and journals studying on brain tumors and different treatments.  I also got several opinions and did not just take the word of just 1 doctor when it came to her treatment.
-1	I WAS HAVING PROBLEMS CONCENTRATING ON MY JOB AND RELAXING AND CONCENTRATING ON ONE THING AT HOME.  I WENT TO MY DR WITH THE SYMPTOMS AND IT WAS FOUND THAT I HAVE ADHD
1	I sprained by ankle running one day and it was swollen really bad. I went to the emergency room and was able to tell the doctor that it was not broken just swollen and what type of sprain it was.
-1	When I had fluid around my heart I learned a lot about the condition which I knew nothing about. It was a scary thing. 
-1	i cant really think of one but i use the internet to find out information if i think something is wrong then i go to the doctor to see if im right 
-1	going to a doctor about a tumor in my uterus and she told me that it would go away so i went to another doctor that did surgery and it turned out to be turning into cancer.
1	My father had 2 major strokes. I managed his health for 3 years. I also have a significant person in my life with type 1 diabetes whom I assist manage the illness
1	I'm actually not really sure I can think of anything at this time. I luckily haven't had many health concerns.
1	Several years ago my boss and I were visiting in his office and he said he had gotten his results from his last blood work. I asked since he was over 55 if they checked his PSA level. He thought for awhile and said well if they did they never gave him any results. I stressed he needed to call and see. Two days later he got a new blood test taken and a week later he was in MD Anderson in Houston for thorough Prostate exam. He is now cancer free for over 6 years.
-1	I dont have any response for this question, i have had very few medical issues. Te most serous thing ive delt with is an ovarian cyst there was nothing to explain
-1	When my daughter kept complaining of stomach pain and the er did blood tests and sent her home I looked at her  test results and it looked like she was backed up I called our doctor and got a second opinion
-1	I can't think of any right now, and I probably wouldn't tell you any way.  Why am I doing math word problems?  Is this a survey about healthcare or math?
-1	We recently had pink eye and I knew before I went to the doctor that it was pink eye and I needed the drops to clear it up.
-1	General every day experiences with going to the doctor and taking other people to the doctor. Reading information about different health issues.
-1	2 broken fingers, left distil bicepTendon Rupture, 2 hernias, neck fusion, surgery on my left arm, I have been out of work for over 6-1/2 years, lost pension, annuity, insurance as well
-1	I was hit by a drunk driver back in 1989 in which my neck was broken 6 verts 1-6 basically an internal decapitation and as well as a dislocated right hip. 
1	I am knowledgeable about osteopenia and osteoporosis due to having experienced those conditions and receiving effective treatment. When the topic of bone density comes up with other women I feel I can speak quite knowledgeably about it.
-1	I used to be certified as a CNA and worked in a long care nursing facility. I also had nursing classes at a tech school earlier in life.
-1	Catching when a doctor prescribed a drug that could have had a negative reaction with another drug I was already taking.
-1	 In high school I took a rotation class that goes into hospitals and shadows doctors. We also learn medical terminology an measurement. 
1	I took the risk of not inducing my son. He was actually born on time not late like I was told that I was. I learned that the tests they were wanting to do was likely causing stress on the baby so stopped doing them and the baby came healthy. 
-1	I have no knowledge of it st all I depend on my doctor for all my nimbers I depend on him very much I trust him for everything 
-1	I began to have severe pain in my right knee. I thought maybe I had injured myself in a fall. I did some research online about knee pain and did an assessment of the pain level and found out what causes that kind of pain. I discovered that I might have osteoarthritis. I went to an orthopedist doctor, had some x-rays performed, and found out that I do, indeed, have osteoarthritis. Because I had done my research already, I was able to understand what he was telling me and what needed to be done.
-1	i read webmd articles, buy books, ask medical people in my family to stay informed...they are a lot of help
-1	when I research options for taking or not taking osteoporosis medication/I learned how the medicine acts within the body
-1	For about 40 years I was the care giver for my disabled Mother. She was very dependent on me. I took her to the hospital in July, 2007. I was of the opinion that she had a TIA. She was not the type to stand up for herself so I insisted that she be admitted to the hospital. She passed away 7 days later. I was positive that she needed help. 
-1	21 years ago, my husband was diagnosed with a form of head, neck and throat cancer stage 4. he was given a 5 year prognosis. As his advocate, I researched al phases of his care.
-1	ABOUT TEN YEARS AGO I WAS TOLD I HAD PROSTATE CANCER AFTER HAVING A BLOOD TEST. IHAD TESTS DONE AND ENDED UP HAVING RADIATION TRESTMENTS
1	I worked as a CNA for 15 years, in both nursing facilities and hospitals. One hospital was on a surgical floor setting, one was a small general care facility. 
1	My wife suffered from Multiple Sclerosis for seventeen years until her untimely death. She would frequently experience Grand Moll seizures which required me to lay her on her side, place a ruler in her mouth and make sure she did not swallow her tongue and choke.
-1	My daughter was throwing up and had bad diarrhea and I looked up her symptoms on line and they all said she had the Nora virus when I took her to see the doctor the doctor said it was just a bug and she'd get over it I insisted she be tested for the Nora virus and it turned out that's what she had.
-1	i used to be medical asst and worked for a geriareic dr...went to school for lvn and worked ina hospital for a long time
-1	have high blood pressure, afib, and arrhythmia , take 3 blood pressure and eqilis for my problem. Have cut caffeine and salt down to help.
-1	I had strep throats and I had to go to the doctors. I got there and did a swab to see if I actually had it. The results came back and it turned out I had strep
1	I have had several surgeries -- two knee replacements and rotator cuff repair among them.  I studies the options carefully and asked my doctors many questions before the surgery.  I also was knowledgeable about the rehab involved  because I read up on it prior to surgery and during the months of rehab.
-1	There have been loved ones in my life who were smokers, overweight and sedentary.  They suffered major cardiovascular health issues and shortened their lifespan.  I have learned from their poor life choices and am doing much better than they did.
-1	hearing about health issues from other people, in the news and on tv have kept me informed about health issues
-1	I began receiving numbness in my hands and feet. I went in to see why and was told come back if it gets worse. I then started having weakness in my larg muscle groups. I went back to Dr. and was again told it was nothing. I then was having paralyses in my legs a arms which prevented me from walking. The doctor said come back if it gets worse. My insurance changed so that I needed to go to another doctor. When he listened to my symtoms he sent me to a specialist who found I had CDPN. This was a serius illnes which coul result in death if not treated with chemo therapy. I did not receive proper care from the first Dr. I have had similar epesodes of ironic diseases that were not treated correctly because the primary Dr. did not send me to a specialist when I clearly Knew something major was wrong.
1	Recently my toddler was running a fever. I had given him ibuprofen and monitored his fever. His temperature kept going up and once it reached 103 I knew I had to take him to the emergency room. His temperature kept rising and by the time we got to the hospital it was 104. I knew that he needed to be seen by a professional. 
-1	Being in my physical therapy sessions made me feel that I can be proactive in my well being I have learned a lot
-1	i used to work as a credit analyst at a credit life and health insurance company.  I had to look at diagnosis and paid claims if they were not pre-existing illnesses
-1	having to clean up my kids bloody knee. i needed to get something to clean it up and see the cut and how deep it is. then get a band aid
-1	well i got to learn about blood clots when i had 1 and didn't know what it was.i'm blessed to have had symptoms and not to have died.i had a heavy feeling leg.i felt like i was falling no matter if i was standing, sitting or lying down.i felt like i couldn't get enough air, like i was breathing through a straw.my husband came home & i told him to get me to the hospital.he did thank God!
-1	I had endometriosis.  I researched and found out alot of information that I used. It helped for a while and then I eventually had to go to more extreme measures 
-1	my father was having issues with his heart, something wasn't right and the emergency room just sent his away.  I threw a bloody fit and he was taken to another hospital and a specialist seen him. He was air lifted to U of W to have a emergency specialized surgery that same night 
-1	I manage my child's egg allergy as well as my husbands asthma! I often have to assess them and give treatment accordingly.
-1	I was at work and I felt my left side go numb, I got dizzy and could not stand. I went to the hopital and had to have emergency heart surgery. I was mis diagnosed a few times prior to my big heart attack.
-1	I can't think of anything to write about. Have no idea what you want me to say as I can not think of anything at all. 
1	I was with an older relative They started slurring their words When I asked them to squeeze my fingers they had a hard time They were sweating so I assumed it was a stroke
-1	I had pain in my right kidney i was guessing stones, all tests came back negative. A month later with more pain and a urine test. Results came back with a high blood count and crystals I am currently trying to fix the issues on my own since the dr screwed up and cant see me for 2 months.
-1	I can't remember any right now. I guess I self-diagnosis myself and my family members too. I just don't trust doctors very much, sorry.
-1	I would have to say it was when I was asking questions at the doctor's office. I was asking about anxiety and depression.
-1	An experience in my life that describes my knowledge of health or medical issues may have to be dealing with raising animals and knowing how to treat them or help them heal when they have problems or in extreme circumstances taking them to the vet and listening to what he tells me to do to help them. .. TRANSFERRING THIS KNOWLEDGE TO MY OWN PERSONAL CIRCUMSTANCES whereby you listen to your doctor's advice.
-1	i feel and dislocated my knee which tore up aterires and veins in my leg and resulted in above knee amputation
-1	My niece was sick. She had a fever and wouldnt eat. I told her mom she may have strep throat and she did
-1	There is no experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues. I don't even really have any health or medical issues
-1	This is most likely the worst survey I have ever taken. Surveys are supposed to be opinions and not a math tesdt. You should be ashamed of yourself!
-1	I was diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome.  I didn't know anything about what caused it.  The dr. didn't tell me anything about diet, so I did my own research and changed my diet, along with his reccommendations to take fiber That was 10 yr. ago and I now have it 95% under control.
1	I was familiar with the medication and side effects prescribed to me. I researched my symptoms and medications prior to my visit.
-1	When I researched symptoms of anemia in high school and months later I was told to be just that. The internet was a great source for me to use at the time, and I also had relatives who were anemic which made the self diagnosis more believable 
1	occasionally give first aid and healing advice and recommend seeing a doctor or specialist if an issue seems severe or persists for an extended period of time (example if someone has sore muscles)
-1	dealing with treatment for cerebral palsy complicated by a back injury, has caused osteoarthritis and required awareness in daily activity, medication and what to take for particular problems, how to use opioids properly
-1	I do not have an experience in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have not seen a medical health professional in a number of years.
-1	I had tingling around my face about twenty years ago and knew there was something wrong and thought maybe I had a stroke or pinch nerve issue so I took myself to the hospital emergency room.  It turned out my cervical spine was degenerated and I needed bone fusion surgery.   
-1	When I caught a virus and got really sick my body went through shock but was able come back the next day.
1	My mother in law is in the neuro ICU. I was able to help interpret her continuous EEG to show her increased brain activity when she was spoken to.
-1	To keep myself updated and also have the latest things to stay healthy at a all the time pace.But it's up to the individual to keep up with their health before a negative matter not to becomes worse.
-1	the doctor telling me there is nothing wrong with me when I feel really bad and need meds to make me feel better
-1	I dont have a whole lot of knowledge of medici issues or conditoions.. i am still learning i am somewhat of newbie
1	I had to take multiple tests in medical assisting school, had to demonstrate my knowledge during my externship, during my job interview & annually for my evaluations.
-1	When my Mother recently fell in her home and she could not get up, we went there to help her. She told us that she had fallen a few days before that and had hurt her ribs. That fall is what made it hard for her to get up and when ever she moved she screamed with pain. At that point I knew not to move her and to call 911 for help. I was afraid if she had a broken rib that if we moved her we could make it worse or puncture a lung.
-1	The last time I was in the hospital because I had to have more colon removed I developed a bacteria in my incision, the Nurses tried to say that this was not a bacteria, I kept telling them this was not right. But no one would listen. Finally the Doctor came in and examined it and determined that I was right. Because of this I have a huge gaping scar in my stomach that will never close.
-1	studying medical when just out of high school and an interest in staying healthy the rest of my life. knowing how some doctors, hospitals and all of the drug companies lie to sell their wares made me decide I wanted no part of them
-1	My mom was in and out of the hospital with many things.  It made me more aware of medical terminology, and that it was necessary to know exactly what was wrong with her to try to beat it.
1	I have never really demonstrated knowledge on health and medical issues.  These are simple math problems.  You learn these in intro college math.
-1	i could care less about it I never trust drs they just out for money yes god is good i put my trust in the lord can I get an amen
-1	I have no experience in the field of medical issues and these questions are for mathematicians not retired people just trying to get a free gift card by accumulating points
-1	over the last seventeen years of being treated for CHF and Arterial Stenosis , have had many experimental medications and other treatments. so far after being diagnosed with a 3 to 5 year life span with this condition have now survived 17 years
-1	Don't have a clue as to what to type here!  I have knowledge of my medical issues and my health issues.   I certainly have enough of them.
1	i have gone to the doctors and hospitals numerous times. My sister is a registered nurse and i have taking courses in college for healthcare management.
1	I work in healthcare and I have also had a few medical conditions in the past for which I had to have surgery for. 
-1	I do not have any knowledge of  health that I can think of at the moment. That I can recall.It's been a while
-1	When I was 43 I had a stroke. I knew I was having one because I diagnosed myself using the F.A.S.T. test and I was correct. I got to the hospital on time to save myself with very minimal damage. I had just seen an episode on a TV show where a woman was having a stroke and did the FAST test. If I didnt just see that show, I might not be alive.
1	I smoked cigarettes for a number of years, but quit when my children were young and information about health riskd associated with smoking became available.
1	I look all of my meds on WebMD. I have researched all of my ailments.  I know more about my issues than my Drs. do.
1	i have never had an experience in my life that demonstrated knowledge or health or medical issues outside a discussion with my doctor
-1	when I know varies medical metody, I learn about to better health for my body and some tips about food , exercise...
-1	I don't really have any knowledge of any particular health or medical issues other that what I am told by my doctor.
-1	alot of bad to worse causes of what could harm you and also kill you.from my knowledge of research alot of too much things can hurt you.
1	When my husband had prostate cancer, I real all the literature given to us so I could help him make a responsible, informed decision about what course of treatment to pursue.
-1	I cleaned house for a lady upon arriving she was in bed unconscious and her sleep apnea machine had fallen off I proceeded to put the machine on her until the ambolunce arrived and later they told me I did the right thing helping her from dieing
1	I had to provide the Heimlich maneuver in the school cafeteria for a middle school student who was choking.
-1	when a doctor didn't want to give me synthroid for the thyroid I had read extensively ahout it and insisted on the drug.  I was being treated for anemia and it was the wrong thing.  Finally took the test for thyroid and found out that it was the problem
-1	I have been diagnosed with itp And had 5 months of treatments and had to solely had to trust and depend on the Drs.
1	Look, I have to see both a psychiatrist and a psychologist once a month and my GP every six months, not counting sick visits.  I hope I know what is going on with my own health, mental and physical.
1	I really have no such knowledge.  I am not trained in health issues or medical knowledge.  Cannot recall an experience that fits the criteria.
-1	I do not have very much knowledge related to health and medical issues. I work in healthcare, but it is an administrative role.
1	I went with my father to the VA. I had to help him understand what was required to control his type 2 diabetes. This included diet and taking meds.
-1	I've had high blood pressure for most of my adult life. I e had to deal with taking medication to control that 
-1	A young man had a heart attack While waiting for the paramedics I performed cpr on him to keep him alive until they arrived.
-1	Finding out I needed a mammogram sooner than 40 years old because of a family history with breast cancer. 
-1	I'M not sure I know of an instant that demonstrates my knowledge of a medical issue.  At this point nothing comes to mind
-1	my husband had a psa done at the doctors office .  The result was abnormally high.  I knew that his chances of having prostate cancer was very high. I was right, he did and died 2 years later
-1	My dad had a kidney stone and wouldn't go to the doctor. My ex had just gone though it a few months before. My dad has ONE kidney. A week after I told him about the kidney stone he started to go into kidney failure.  He's ok now but the nurses and mom had me stay with him at the hospital. I did more for him than the nurses did. 
-1	I had breast cancer.  I had two different health insurance companies. I needed to make sure I was sending the bills to both companies and learned about health care claims.
-1	Growing up frequently sick. Always trying to be in the best condition to prevent sickness and grow up healthy.
-1	A close friend lasr year started describing the various sytems she was having, I strongly urged her to go to the doctor so that specific tests could be done, unfortunately she didnt until it was too late and nothing could be done
-1	I am not a doctor. I do not have a degree in health or medicine. And I believe I am not that smart to become a doctor, so I don't have enough knowledge.
1	I once saved someone by doing the Heimlich maneuver. My health and medical knowledge extend to basic first aid. 
-1	after getting so many shots i am able to tell the best time and place to get blood from me so i know when and where to stick me 
1	 I've not faced any of these examples. So far so good. All I have had to do so far is read the documents and sign. I did, however, used to be employed as a Medical Receptionist at a plasma donation center. I was in charge of taking blood tests using a hematocrit that, after spun, revealed plasma protein levels. I payed the customers. I took their pulses and blood pressures. I read a series of questions that aided in determining whether or not a donor was suitable. 
-1	I really haven't been in a situation like that. I know how to check for broken bones & know CPR. I wish to learn more about additional medical issues in the future.
-1	When my daughter was 7 she was hospitalized. The hospital refused to discharge her until she drank at least 16 oz of fluids on her own. I requested that they remove the IV in order for her to actually be thirsty enough to want to drink
1	Wow this is a tough one....i m not sure...I was able to do great wound care when I had a Hugh gapping whole in my left leg after a bad break and two surgeries
-1	I never really had any major medical issues which is good and I know about the lasted health issues so I know the basics
-1	I had passed out from a infection in my stomach. My intestines was swollen and to find out I also had a blood clot in my vien on my overys 
-1	I don't have any such experience to relate to that i can remember. In general I have a good knowledge of this subject
-1	I have been sick since I was 19 years old.  I am 59 now.  Ever time I have an added diagnosis, I check it out on my computer to better to understand it better.  I also go to WebMD.com.  Great place to go for information. My knowledge would be on the higher level.  I am proud to keep informed with all my medical problems.
-1	A few moths ago I began experiencing shooting pains in my chest & stomach, i was going through a lot of things, so I figured it was stress/anxiety related, i was right 
-1	herniated a disc in my lower back about 25 years ago and was able to find and understand the symptoms and treatments for my ailment
-1	I had a pulled muscel in my back.  I knew I needed to do some excercise moderately to get back to know pain.
1	My sister had an unexplained persistent backache. She began to lose weight and she became jaundiced. I suggested she go to a doctor, jaundice and weight loss concerned me. Turns out she had pancreatic cancer, like our mom before us. (Unlike mom, she survived the treatment.) I am now hyper alert for signs that might indicate cancer. 
1	!i took a medical terminology class and knew most of the words that we learned in the class before I was even taught them. I am also able to understand a lot of terminology that's hearon medical dramas and can tell if the information is accurate or not. 
-1	I don't have a whole lot of knowledge about medical issues - I let my doctor figure this out because he is the one qualified to do so. He has the knowledge and the expertise to do this and I defer to him on a regular basis. HE is the doctor.
-1	My daughter had cancer. My mother and grandmother along with an aunt have/had diabetes for as long as I can recall. 
-1	I don't really remember any time at all.  I can only answer when I have a doctor appointment and what we are talking about at the time and if I understand it.
-1	Two years ago after getting my blood work my letter in the mail showed my cholesterol was extremely high & my blood glucose was elevated so I changed my diet & started exercising & 6 months later I got my cholesterol down half of what it was & my blood glucose was normal
-1	My daughter was born with ESRD and has since had a kidney transplant, lost it and is now on dialysis.  I have been with her through this entire ordeal that started with when was 10 years old - she is now 28 years old.
-1	After being diagnosed with a medical issue and having to take a certain amount of medication so many times per day. 
-1	Only during medical class learning abbreviations that I recall and understanding their meaning. And taking a cpr class I learned a few things
1	I don't have a specific experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I just am able to understand whatever my doctor tells me.
-1	My children have had transplant so I'm quite familiar with liver function tests and when mine were elevated I knew that it was probably my gallstones blocking the common bile duct rather than an actual problem with my liver
-1	Having a to take a test for breast cancer and having to wait for the results to come back is something I would never want to experience again but now knowing I don't have it is good
-1	i have never actually had an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of any health or medical issue.  
-1	I haven't had a chance to demonstrated me knowledge of health of medical issues I have never in my life had to do that. 
-1	My past operations and hospital tests and in-patient as well as out-patient experiences and the knowledge I obtained from all of these.
1	I have hypothyroidism. I had a goiter when I was a child and was treated. I did not understand then what that treatment was but thinking it over and over and researching it I know more. After I miscarried I became hypothyroid and started medication. I now know I'd been hypothyroid since my treatment as a child. My medication is adjusted annually.
1	I can't think of one at the present because I am rarely sick therefore I can not remember any experience in my life right off.
1	I gave a friend medical advice when they had abdominal pain that they were ignoring. I told them to go to the ER, it turns out they had appendicitis. 
-1	I may not be the strongest on math but I do tend to get the gist of the message in my day to day exposure to health and medical issues. It's not so much one experience as the pattern of my lifetime.
-1	My mom is a register nurse and i worked at a home health care agency I took a and p courses so I have some type of knowledge
1	Most concern other people. My hubby has heart issues and diabetes. All my brothers have diabetes. My hubby had open heart and so did one brother. The most crucial time is 72 hours after surgery.  
-1	I had a major surgery last year and it made me really invest in my health and medical care, studying more, asking more questions, etc
-1	May be I don't have but I have seen few patients as like this medical problems  in the past two years ago 
-1	i'm not the smartest person in the world but I know the basics of medical issues pertaining to myself
-1	In my early 20s I had an auto accident and received a concussion through to the impact of the car and was hospitalized and require an MRI to make sure that I didn't have any internal injuries
-1	My personal health situation,which is very good.I exercise regularly,eat right, and am abstinent.I live a very disciplined lifestyle. I have had no personal medical experiences. I learn well from the experiences of others.
1	When my father was sick he spent much time in the hospital and I had to learn what the doctors and nurses were talking about so I could talk to the professionals with some sort of knowledge. I could understand what they were talking about. 
1	When I was diagnosed with Paget's disease of the vulva, I understood the surgical procedure that the doctor would use to remove the tissue which was affected.  When he told me about a cream that had just become available, and that it was a chemo drug that had been helpful in controlling symptoms of my condition, I opted to try it.  My doctor fully explained the side effects, and how to deal with them.  I just call him if the meds start to bother me, and he changes the frequency of use of the cream.  I have gone from having surgery every 1 to 2 years, to having NO surgeries for the past 4 years.  
-1	hadwas total shock and surprise to say the very least breast cancer in 2008 with no indications or symptons of any kind
-1	Having been in the military as a medic/nurse/pharmacy tech my background and knowledge is vital to my health and some of the answers might be wrong but i'm 65 and it's been awhile
-1	i have had my gallbladder removed, my child has had their tonsils and aednoids removed. i have had 3 csections, my mom has had a hysterectomy. i learned about these thing thru the doctors
1	I can't really think of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. I guess this is one of those times when you don't know what to say.
-1	Twenty one years ago I had a major stroke, the Doctor said I died on them 4 times that night, but I survived, he called me a miracle. I have had 2 heart attacks and 2 strokes. I am still here. I have no medical training but have been through enough to have some, a small bit of medical & health knowledge at least concerning my own issues. 
-1	Having children and being able to recognize illness and when a doctor visit is needed, what questions to ask at the clinic etc. 
-1	i had an  friend who was hot and feverish that insisted he stay at work that he just had a sore throat, start of a cold. i knew he had more than a cold and finally, i insisted that he take his temperature. it was 100.5. took him immediately to ER. he was admitted into the hospital with severe strep throat. after a nite, he was released and was confined to home for over a week to get well. 
-1	I'm quite knowledgeable but not that great with math. I know a lot about healthy eating and exercising and how to watch for certain symptoms I get my flu shot plenty of rest and so on. This survey definitely not worth the time I spend on it
1	I have a hearing loss which due to the type being a inner ear vs bone conduction I have been able to find a surgeon who can replace the stapes to help improve my hearing
1	I'm not sure that I have anything in my life that would demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues. I mean, I see a doctor when I should, and I exercise and try to eat right, but other than that, I'm not sure what you're asking.
1	I was diagnosed with high cholesterol and high triglycerides. My cholesterol and triglyceride levels were very high. I went to a specialist who recommended a statin to control the cholesterol and fish oil to control the triglycerides.
-1	My father had a stroke on the street in Springfield.  I was able to notice the symptoms right away and get him to the hospital very quickly.  The staff treated him immediately with appropriate drugs to minimize the effects of the stroke and he lived for many years without too much difficulty.
-1	I was told I needed a breast biopsy because of an abnormal mammogram, but I was not too worried because I know there are a lot of false findings. As I suspected the biopsy came back negative, but was told I have very dense breast tissue so I know that it is imperative that I regularly have a mammogram.
-1	any questions I have about health or medicine can usually be found online at numerous blogs or sites.
-1	On several occasions, to mention some common diseases of my children such as colds, flu, malaise, routine evaluations, and also with relatives
-1	I did not have any.  I am very up to date on everything and have this kind of a problem.  If I did I would have remembered and told you but I have not.l
1	I worked as a wilderness field guide and had to use wilderness first responder skills to assess and treat clients as the nearest doctor/hospital was often several hours away. 
-1	i was a full time caretaker of my husband who had been sick our whole marriage nad he passe away in oct 16
-1	My experience dealing diagnosed with diabetes has truly knowledge me take special precautions on my daily food intake
-1	So there's my latest experience, my mom's,my baby brother's,  my younger brother's, and now my cousin's.
1	My doctor diagnosed me with Rheumatoid Arthritis with possible overlaping systemic Lupus and I should immediately start taking biologic treatments.  He did not fully explain all the potential side effects of the medications.  I researched the medications and found many of the side effects were more dibilitating than the disease.
-1	I have nothing to really say about this so I am just kind of without words at this moment and about this Subject
-1	I fell down stairs at the age of 62 and knew I injured my arm and shoulder.  I had to take immediately action and went to the emergency room for treatment.
1	I have Type 2 Diabetes and am limited to 45 carbohydrates per meal and 30 carbohydrates per snack.  I measure my oatmeal and almond milk and maple syrup every morning to make sure I do not exceed 45 carbohydrates.  I had to read the labels and figure it out for myself and measure.
-1	Being diagnosed with diabetes when I was 8 years old. Growing up and going through many stages of life with diabetes has deepened my knowledge
1	My doctor has told me many times that I  live a healthy lifestyle He says I know what to eat and how important exercise is as well as a positive mental attitude
-1	I was told that I had diabetes with high blood pressure. I knew I had to get some weight off and take my medication as directed. I also had to learn how to keep my stress level down. I also needed to exercise more.
-1	When I had an broken ankle. I understood what the doctor was telling me about the operation that he was going to perform in my ankle. 
1	I am always trying to gain new knowledge.  Not just health issues.  I try to learn something new every day/ 
-1	in march or april 2016 i was hospitalised i already knew i had congestive heart disease in the er  my sodium magnesium was very low then my heart rate was slow the next month i had to have a pacemaker in less than 30 minutes my heart rate went from 50 to 30
1	I don't know if I can recall anything that would meet the qualifications for this question. I don't know what else you want me to type here.
-1	I don't know if there's a particular experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues... I know an average amount I think, but I don't know if I've ever put that knowledge to use
-1	im very interested in the medical field im constaley reading up on the internet and books to learn more and more about peoples health
1	I'm an  avid reader and try to stay up with changes in the medical world.  My doctors are all able to explain things in laymen terms and never rush me out of the office and are available by phone if I remember something after I leave the office. I speak to friends and family that may have had similar issues.  I had my knee replaced and knew what to expect before the surgery, during and after.  My rehab was thought out in advance and the location of the center I chose was picked out in advance.  It made me very comfortable with my decision.
-1	I don't have a goof experience but I was born with a health problem and everyday I hurt but I'm working on it with my doctor
-1	I don't know anything about it I go school and home and church my family don't tell me anything not even about period and they won't tell me about sex but my teacher told the class about sex and help diseases that will happen if you have unprotected sex 
-1	He demonstrate my knowledge in small villages, family environment and others in other than business trip
-1	The only reason I have a basic knowledge is because many years ago I used to work as a medical secretary and I learned alot on the field. 
-1	I have personally never had health issues but I was able to help explain to my grandfather what was going on when the Doctor told him that he had lung cancer.
-1	I always go to my primary doctor ever year to get a physical examination. I ask her to draw my blood and get a flu shoot 
1	Not applicable. I have never really experienced this situation before. I am ready though to become more knowledgable of the various health conditions so that I will always be in the know and ask questions when needed.
1	recently did a test for colon cancer and they told me they found something and it could be cancer with a percentage being mistaken. It turns out it wasn't cancer
1	My husband is terminally ill with multiple myleoma, my father had pancreatic cancer, my husband has diabetes, has had three bi-passes and one valve replaced in his heart, gout and my mother had liver cancer and my father also had hodgskins disease.  My mother worked as a nurses' aid in a hospital for twenty years and I basically grew up there.
-1	I really can say is that the only time that I did have is when i had a appendices to where I was not feeling good/ 
-1	I worked in a doctors office assisting the doctor with procedures and doing medical charts. I had to know medical terminologies
-1	I weaned my father in law off of a long list of drugs which were not needed. I also was able to get off of 2 high blood pressure drugs for myself.
-1	I felt a lot of pain in my lower part of my body which my doctor told me to not eat so much meat and now I eat more veggies than meat
-1	I can't think of a particular instance where my life experience has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	During my last hospitalization, several times I asked relevant questions despite my reduced capacity. On at least one occasion, the nurse was surprised and didn't know the answer and had to ask the doctor.
1	Had 3 children, a wife with severe COPD who I cared for, several emergency situations related to accidents to friends and cared for them at the time of the accident until professional help could arrive.
-1	My knowledge of my migraines and how to try to avoid them and how to treat them when they occur it is easier to avoid a migraine then to treat one
-1	I am finding it hard to recall, other than following my doctor's instructions on how to treat my conditions, i.e, taking my medications properly.
-1	I found out my son has hemophilia and I had to learn all about that . And I'm still learning about all the different things that come with it I was a mess in that hospital room when they told me that news . But now I teach people about hemophilia and all that comes with it I teach more of the youth though just to get them educated on it .
-1	When I went for my yearly mammogram I was told I had a spot on my left breast and they had to do a biopsy so they did and it came back begin thank god
1	I know that if I eat foods that are not healthy for me i will gain weight.Also, eating junk food in  the evening is very unhealthy. Therefore, if I want a snack in the evening, I will either either eat hot air popcorn or an apple.
-1	Prescription drugs with multiple serious side effects for someone with my illness, age, and weight. Multiple drugs working together and against each other. 
-1	I was playing softball when one of my teammates was hit in the head with the ball.  We layed him on the bench and applied ice to the swollen head to reduce the swelling and also gave him aspirin to further reduce the swelling
-1	My son had a potrution on the side of his neck that did not seem like a swollen lymph node. I assumed it was a thyroid problem and unfortunately turned out to be correct. He has papillary cancer of both nodes.
1	i read a lot of trade pubs about mental and physical health and feel like i have a decent level of knowledge about healthcare issues
-1	My grandmothers and mother have both been in the hospital and I have had to interpret the medical papers and procedures they are talking about.
1	I experienced a very rapid heartbeat (155 bpm) and knew I was experiencing some type of arrythmia as my husband has suffered from heart issues from many years.  I immediately went to the ER and learned I was having an atrial flutter episode.  After treatment with a couple of medications, my heart converted to normal sinus rythm
1	When I was about to begin my transition as a transgender woman I did online research about hormones and determined the exact dosage that the doctor prescribed.
-1	I LIVE MY LIFE WITH A VERY LITTLE HEALTHY PROBLEMS SO I CAN NOT FEEL LIKE OTHER PATIENTS THAT HAVE DISEASES IN THEIR LIFE
-1	My whole family have either had diabetes, heart trouble , high blood pressure. High choelestrol or cancer, just to name a few diseases 
1	I am a long-term diabetic who, unfortunately, has experienced many of the side-effects associated with this disease for many years. It just makes sense to me , that the more knowledge and information one has about their maladies and the treatments available for them, the more equipped they are to understand and follow the advice of their primary care physician.
-1	When my gallbladder went bad, I knew a few months before the doctors figured out that it was my gallbladder. 
-1	When a neurologist advised me to take steroids.  I wouldn't because it would be bad for my osteoporosis.
-1	I had a skin cancer lesion on my face and I had it removed. I took very good care of the wound and followed the doctors orders explicitly
-1	My lungs. I have it under control. The western doctors only wanted me to take antibiotics and other medications. I am doing GREAT without all that . Thanks to diet/herbs/vitamins/ exercise.
-1	Im not really sure.i know how to monitor blood pressure takecmy weight.i know how to take my temperature
1	I worked in a hospital during college.  Past that, my knowledge is derived from school curriculum and my personal health experience.
-1	I am confident I know enough about the conditions that I have to be able to recognnize them in other people.
1	Having children gave me lots of opportunities to deal with medical issues.  Recognizing a case of blood poisoning that developed from an infected finger
-1	I  don't have any experiences that I would like to share with anyone there's is nothing I can think of
-1	I knew something was wrong with me so i researched my symptoms and self diagnosed endometriosis and i do indeed have it
-1	having cancer. I had to learn all options and expierence chemo and radiation.  I had to learn all I could
1	When I was pregnant with my first born I was told I had a negative Rh blood type and I would need a certain type of medication through shot to ensure hay my next born wouldn't die in the fetus
-1	Husband has a stroke and due to another person in the family having the same thing happen I was able to recognize some of the symptoms and prevent it from being much worse.  
-1	i have had numerous family members battle diseases over the 50 years of my life with heart attacks, open heart surgeries, to cancer, melanoma, so it has hit so close to home
-1	None?I am tried of these questions.This is all I am writing . I am done.Done, done,done,done.Already done.
-1	It would pertain to a time with my son since as a mother, you just seem to sense or know certain things.  Anytime, my son has a headache, I know there is something up and I need to delve deeper to find out what that something is.
1	none that i can think of, guess i have led a sheltered life or just kept myself out of the medical system as much as i possibly could though i have given birth to two boys years ago and that was something that worked itself out as expected
-1	i went to school for phlebotomy, and learned quit a few things about the human body and what some medical issues are.
-1	] have worked in both the clinical and administrative departments in health care. I have been diagnosed with medical conditions 
1	Mammogram's yearly make me feel satisfied, that I have healthy breasts. Also giving myself frequent breast exams weekly, or when ever I shower, gives me the satisfaction that I am doing my own part to follow up should I find any lumps.
-1	There has not been anything in my life but knee pain.  It has almost been a year and I still have no idea what is wrong with my knee.  I might have a year or I might have arthritis, but it would be nice to know.
1	"I knew when I had to go in for gallbladder removal. I held off as long as possible, but knew when to go in. I also knew that my condition was not ""just gas"" as I had been previously told."
-1	About my weight and weight loss. I know how many carbs and calories I need a day to be healthy and loss weight. 
-1	My own medical issues and the medical issues of my family members. Both my grand parents died of cancer
1	My girlfriend frequently goes to the hospital for asthma related illnesses. I need to understand the issues, and be able to respond to take care of her while en route to the hospital.
1	I had to help my oldest son while he was having a grand mall seizure and I was told how to  place him and not to stick anything in his mouth because he could possibly choke and I was told the signs to watch for in case he did not show signs of the seizure stopping within a reasonable amount of time. I was the only one in my family who could stay calm enough to help my son during his seizures.
-1	I have not any serious experiences myself my parents have had some issues regarding their health just minor issues that requires some attention 
-1	When I had to research whether to immunize myself and child. When I had to learn about a family member's' health.
-1	my daughter has allergies so I know how to read labels and to handle a reaction if she has one including admistering an injector
-1	Had blood in my stool. Made appointment with my doctor to schedule colonoscopy. Phillips were defected and remove. My current schedule for colonoscopies is every 5 years.
-1	i have overal good health and am keeping my health in good shape by eat good food habits and doing exercise regularly
1	When my grandmother was in her early stages of Alzheimer's, my family knew that something was wrong -- and we assumed it was Alz. When we were in her kitchen, we had drawn a circle and asked her to fill in the numbers on the clock (1-12). What had wound up happening is that she had condensed 1-12 on one half of the clock (which correctly should have been 12-6), then wrote 13:00, 14:00, 15:00 etc. up the second half of the clock (6-12).
-1	My mother used to have epileptic seizures and there were times she would have one when it was just her and I at the house. She was also on medicine which I learned what each was for, what dosage she needed, what to do in an event of a seizure, etc.
-1	When I had a my last baby the I told the doctor I felt like I needed to push. The doctor said I still wasn't ready. Not even 60 seconds later my child was born.
-1	lord i really do not know i do not pay it that much attention about stuff like that and never will i guess
-1	I have not experience anything in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues that I could talk about.
-1	I needed to have my gall bladder removed at the age of 19. It turned out to be an emergency surgery after 2 months of waiting for a scheduling 
1	I studied and was certified as a CNA in high school so I have a pretty good understanding of the medical field.  There are new things all the time so I know I don't know everything.I was also in the hospital for 6 1/2 weeks and learned things about the medical field there.
-1	I had a hip replacement in 2014. I wondered if I would be able to walk normally afterward. With physical therapy I regained strength and balance. I completely forget now that I have a prosthetic hi, until I go through security at an airport.
-1	I worked for an NGO previously that worked with people that had type 2 diabetes. We often had open days where people would come in we would discuss with them what type 2 is and how we can help.
-1	one time i had depression and i went to a few doctors and they tld me it wasnt nothing .but i went and got a another opinion on it .and they really helped me and the other doctor was really good and nice to me .
-1	had back surgery  high blood pressure    high cholesterol  pnumonia  have sleep problems  at night  i have apnea
-1	Everything you eat need to have a balance.   Excercise is very important.  Avoid alcohol and smoking.
-1	I felt severe chest pain and knew enough about chest pain so I did not just ignore it and called for an ambulance to take me to the hospital before very much damage was done to my heart because I was having a heart attack.
1	I was formally taking a prescription medication for controlling fluid build up in my heart.It made me cough very hard often.I contacted my heart doctor ,explained the symptoms and he changed the medicine.
-1	I once felt a lump in my right breast area then it was just of my weight gain. were the doctor told me to just keep a eye upon on it . I was kind of concern at first but everything is all good.
-1	Not a lot of experience at all,  just go to my VA visits & listen to my doctor or nurse.. I've had a double hernia & went to my checkups and listened to my doctor or nurse.
-1	Can't think of an experience at this time.  Sorry. Can't think of one.  Sorry. I don't know of one.  
-1	when i thought i found a lump i was pretty sure i had cancer i was self diagonsing and in a state of panic kept postponing going to doctor but finally did
1	I was at a store and a girl was having what looked to me like an asthma attack. No one knew what to do so I asked if anyone had an inhaler no one did so said call an ambulance knowing that it wouldn't resolve on its own
-1	I can not give you a clue . im not that good with health care . i do not know where to being on that . because im not a doctor
1	I worked as a medical claims adjuster for a self insured group for 8 years and I also worked in a medical clinic submitting claims to various insurance for another 8 years.
-1	when I had knee surgery, I studied up on what they were going to do and what medicine they were using to get me thru this
-1	i have had multiple surgeries and shared that with others to inform them that care is needed in all cases, don't avoid checkups and take all your medicine.
-1	when my friend had gotten a UTI and i went to the store and i knew exactly what she needed to have to make her feel better.
-1	not very knowledgable I always go to Doctors and pay my insurance and finally I just suffering pain all over my body
-1	I'm sorry I can't recall such a issue I know my husband has high cholesterol  I have some knowledge about changing his diet
-1	I've had a experience in my life that demonstrated health issues and it was abnormal finding and it was false
-1	I don't have any one experience in my life that can show my knowledge of health or medical issues. I have had two hernia repair surgeries, emergency galbladder surgery and burned in a house fire years ago.
1	I cannot think of a thing.  I have a good grasp of what is healthy and what is not but I don't know what you want as an answer for this.
-1	Sending my deceased spouse to the doctor when he was having light headedness & almost fell due to blood pressure medication he was on was to strong after he had lost weight.
-1	I have always been relatively healthy and haven't needed to assess my health needs much. I can pretty well tell what's going on with me and treat it accordingly. 
-1	My doctors nurse practitioners online health websites books magazines shows like doctor oz and family.
-1	I do not have much knowledge about medical issues unless they're my own and still don't know much about it 
-1	Ive had breast cancer so i have quite a bit of experience with health and medical issues ive also had other procedures done
-1	I really don't know what to say here. I have seems like most of my life been kinda sickly. So with that said, I have always tried to be proactive with my health. I'm always reading and researching thing that happen or could happen to your health. There is no one single instance, but I feel like I know quite a bit about my health. 
-1	In high school we needed to plan a diet which meant recording everything we ate and how much calories we burned. By doing so we were able to see how much caloric intake we actually accumulated according to a 2,000 calorie diet. Based upon that we could calculate how much weight could be lost as a result of dieting.
-1	my mother worked in a doctor's office so I know a lot of information presented here. And I read a lot about health and staying healthy.
-1	I was born with asthma, so I remember getting shots as a kid for it. As I aged, my condition improved, so I didn't use an inhaler (or shots) as frequently as I did before.
1	I have worked as a pediatric nurse and have also got an RN degree.  I have worked in the medical field for over 12 years.
-1	Had family member who had to get fibroids removed and a family member  who needed a knee replacement  plus a friend  who had diabetes and had to get a toe removed.
1	Many talks with nurses and high up healthcare providers have resulted in actual disagreement with results and numbers. I have been confirmed correct on more than a few occasions with research after the fact.
1	My mother always went with me to the doctor's office when I was younger and she would ask the doctor questions and then explain to me what the doctor said. She also explained how to read forms and paperwork. I also took many science classes which introduced me to basic medical issues. 
1	i cannot think of any except once while at the doctors the nurse asked if I had medicaltraining because I sounded so knowledgeable.
-1	i cannot think of anything. i am not sure, i have not had an experience that i can think of. i dont know of anything that comes to mind
1	I think just having basic knowledge in life is helpful.  I have not had any serious medical conditions so that I am not sure how to respond.  I can read, write and do math.  
-1	i did research on ovarian cysts. i had the knowledge of symptoms and diet to relieve pain so when i spoke to the my doctor i was familiar with everything
-1	I read do research ask questions of all my medical professional I am not afraid to ask question to ask for more than I can give, is to ask me to give false information
-1	my life has been funny because now i cannot eat icecream or drink milk no raw fruits and no raw vegitbles
-1	I have had kidney stones on the worst level . I know that drinking lots of fluids and not drinking alcohol helps
-1	I have had children and over the years I try to keep up with health care all thou I stinck at math so I hate when people talk in percent
-1	One day my husband kept saying he had a terrible crick in his neck. He said it was on his right and it really hurt. He sat in his chair for about 2 hours. I was urging him to go to the er as I thought he was having a heart attack as I knew a man with the same symptoms and he went to the doctor. His was a heart attack. My husband refused. Next doctor visit they ran an ekg. It showed he had indeed had a heart attack. He ended up having a 4 by pass.  I should have made him go to er because heart surgeon said he was a ticking time bomb.
-1	In my life time I have not really had any health issues that call for me to have a knowledge of health or medical issues other than having children.  When I was at a very young age I had a tumor on my big toe but my mom handled hat because I was a teenager and definitely had no knowledge of any health or medical issues except my toe at that time would not heal and that I had to go to the doctor to find out what was wrong and that was when we found I had a tumor.  It was operated on in the doctor's office , tumor and the toe nail was removed and the toe scraped to the bone.  It was not malignant toe nail grew back where I was not suppose to have one and I am fully grown and have not had any further trouble.
-1	I had to have surgery on my foot. I broke it in 4 places and the metatarsal was left broken and untreated for 4 years. I had to have a fusion surgery to correct and remove arthritic tissue etc.
1	Recommending a better diet and less alcohol consumption to a friend who had had colon cancer. xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
-1	My experience is I have cancer I've gone through a lot of medicines I've gone through a lot of treatments including radiation and chemotherapy I think I'm experienced as matter fact I know I'm experienced
1	When I was told I had Type 2 Diabetes, I have learned quite a bit about my condition and how to control it over the years.
-1	i really dont have much experience in life demonstrationbecause i dont understand most of it also i was told a couple of times they found stuff when doing a mammogram and it turned out nothing was there
-1	When I had cervical spine surgery. The surgeon explained everything in full so I naturally had a little fear as it was my spinal cord they were  operating on
-1	I dont think i have ever had an experience other then whem i knoew i needed nedication for anxiety and depression
-1	I can't think of anytime in my life where I was asked to demonstrate my knowledge of medical skills. Health wise, besides being asked of my own personal health, I can think of no occurrences where I had to demonstrate health knowledge. 
-1	it is a high level experience, i have a good knowledge, i know who is the best doctor to see when i am sick.
-1	when i was diagnosed with a sexually transmitted decease that was on the verge of being a life and death situation and i did;nt know how serious it was until i was told by the doctor.
-1	I have high cholesterol and high triglycerides. After meeting with my doctor quarterly and exercising, as well as eating better, I am able to lower these levels.
-1	I have not had any experience for myself, but I have helped my husband who has a lot of medical issues. 
1	I am a little bit overweight.  I am aware of the weight loss benefits of a low carbohydrate diet.  I am easily able to keep track of what carbohydrate levels are in most foods, and have ,in the past, been able to lose weight when I want to.  I assume this is considered a health issue. 
1	I was diagnosed with high cholesterol in late 1990's.  I do not want to take statins because of possible/probable side effects, so I did a lot of research on diets and natural supplements and exercise to lower cholesterol naturally and have kept very close to my goals all these years.  
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health is when I had nomophobia i had to use my knowledge of health to get better and not to get sick again
1	Doctors couldn't diagnose me in Las Vegas, NV. I had to go to Birmingham, Al to get the right diagnoses. This goes to show that if at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
-1	I knew when my wife was suffering from what had not yet been diagnosed as shingles because of the symptoms she presented.
1	My sister's daughter was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes and my father had also suffered from this.  I was familiar with the treatments and lifestyle changes involved.
-1	It was very hard needed help with some people next to me and some didn't make sense.i don't want to be a doctor
-1	I'm not in school anymore    NO MATH QUESTONS! Jeesus, I hate this survey    you want long answers that can be answered with a short one and ask math questions   this sucks
1	My mother diagnosed with Hepatitis. She believes she contracted this before I was born through a blood transfusion.  I understood that this disease could be passed from child to mother during pregnancy, but the likelihood was low.  
-1	After carefully study and researching my health issues and seeking consultation. A physician preferred me to have a life threatening surgery than to balance my body specifically and naturally based on my ailments and chemistry. I was convinced  that i would not be having surgery and i have been fine ever since. I have been taking the right precautions. 
-1	I took care of my mom for 10 yrs. She'd had a stroke, diabetes, and later was a double amputee. I did whatever I was told to do by the doctor. I called if I had any questions. I gained some knowledge, but it's mostly forgotten. It's been 13 yrs ago.
-1	I have degenerate disk disease that in the future I wil need a back fusion with hardware, I have been a candidate for awhile
-1	I have no clue. And to top it off I am horrible with math problems. I wait to be told the number not try and guess.
1	The only experience I had in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I was helping a friend research the different methods of birth control.  I knew a lot about each method and its side effects and my own experience with the method I was currently taking at the time.
-1	I can't think of any instance at this time. I am not by any means experienced in these matters. I have taken a few biology classes on subjects of this matter but I have never been put in a situation where I had to use that knowledge to resolve a medical issue. I am not entirely sure what this  questions is asking, however I am very interested in learning more about medical and health conditions.
1	When I was diagnosed with Crohns disease. I read how bad it was and my chances of needing surgery. I foud through my own research , everybody is an individual. Many will be very ill and some it will be a minor inconvenience at times.
1	An acquaintance of mine told me her symptoms and I actually gave her the same diagnosis as her doctor did a month later.
-1	Nothing demonstrates my knowledge. I need explanations and I guess most of the time so I don't look stupid by saying I don't know.
-1	I followed my doctors advice when taking a prescription drug and I followed the directions on the label.
-1	I'm not sure I know how to answer this question. I once had severe abdominal pain not long after my mother had simiar pain and was diagnosed with colon cancer. I went to the emergency room where I wqs diagnosed with a kidney stone.
-1	Nothing since I am in perfect health and all my doctor metrics are within range of where they are supposed to be.
1	When I was a runner I used to calculate my maximum heart rate and then attempt to perform at seventy percent of that.
-1	I once had a gall bladder attach and was obviously in very much pain. Went online and self diagnosed what I thought it was-so went to the emergency room. I talked with my doctor after the incident and we discussed the options and how to keep this from happening again. we changed my diet and learned what I was able to eat and not eat to make sure that this would not happen again-which it has not
1	I was recommended for dental surgery this fall and followed the process for a referral and preliminary examination. I have been researching my various options and learning about the difference between basic vs. restorative work and what my insurance will cover.  
1	Up until a few years ago when I became disabled, I was a home health aide. My job was to assist clients with ADL's and following their doctors orders. It has always been important to understand the orders in order to follow through with them. I demonstrated my abilities every single day in one way or another while taking care of my clients.
1	I have never had an experience where I needed to use any medical knowledge above general knowledge of health. I did work corrections so I was prepared for many situations but didn't have to use it. 
1	When I started gaining more weight than I desired, I started exercising regularly and eating more sensibly.
-1	I have studied medical situations that occur in the real world since I'm studying to be a anesthesiologist 
-1	Not that much see a ill bit different from what I use to n read about the same so but health is important to me but my w s y
-1	taking care of my disabled husband doing his cathers keeping track of his intake and output plus his diet and sugar count and his medicicne
-1	My cousin was having gallbladder issues and I kept telling her to get checked out because our family has a history of needing them removed. She ignored me for multiple months and just had to have 4 surgeries in 1 due to how bad she let it get.
-1	I think I have not had a serious health experience, I am very fortunate to have good health and well-being with my family
1	Being diagnosed with Chronic Migraines. Having prior been diagnosed with Bi polar 2 when I was in high school going through family trauma, death of a mother, and puberty.. But it was definitely Bi Polar 2..
1	I have no specific examples, however, I've never had to consult with a third party regarding understanding medical or health information.  I am able to understand healthcare issues well.
-1	I am not sure how to really answer this question, as I have not had any real health or medical problems thay I had to demonstrate and knowledge of
1	I was the caregiver for my Mother for the last seven years of her life, until she was 94. In that capacity, I was responsible for her medicines and health care. As her health Power of Attorney, I advised her on health care matters and sat in on all her physician's appointment. After each appointment, I made sure she understood the information. She was very hearing impaired. At the end of her life, she was unable to make her own decisions so I had to make decisions about her health care. I have also taught first aid, CPR and bloodborne pathogens for the American Red Cross.
-1	I don't have any knowledge. I'm actually just using google and Siri to answer all of these questions. They were easy at first but then got hard 
-1	A time that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when discussing my allergies with my doctor and what to do to control them.
1	When I was practicing law, I had occasion to review a large number of medical records.  I also had to speak with a good number of doctors in different specialties. As a result I have had many conversations with clients about their health and medical issues
1	I read a lot of the latest health related books. My most recent books read are by Anthony William, regarding the real cause of many mystery illnesses. He confirms that most illnesses are due to viruses, and eating fruits and vegetables is usually the answer.
-1	IBS having a lot of pain in my stomach not known what's wrong with you and worrying something else is wrong 
-1	I eat a balanced diet, take my meds as prescribed. Keep my overall weight at a normal level for my height and build. supersize regularly and keep happy.
-1	i researched a beta blocker side effects after years of taking drug and decided to wean myself off of the drug. i feel better going off the harmful medication. my dr agrees with me
1	I have taken classes as an EMT, grew up in a family with people who work in hospitals, worked as a pharmacy technician, and am currently in school to be a pharmacist. 
-1	The time I correctly identified a malignant skin cancer on my left forearm. My doctor was pleased. He was glad.
-1	I was recently diagnosed with arthritis that caused me to have a hammer toe.  When the dr told me what was wrong I knew exactly that the arthritis had formed in my toe joints and pushed my toes up and side ways
-1	I went to the emergency room on a friday and i could not breath, well they decided i had COPD but when i went to my doctor i found out i had bronchitis.
-1	"My father, my father, my father.  We were a home of ""wholesome, homemade meals"" before it was in vogue. My father would actually take the time at the dinner table to talk about whole foods, gardening and respecting the earth. I just knew he was spot on!"
-1	Every day of my life working as a nurse I demonstrate knowledge of health and medical issues. Don't know what more I can say
-1	I had to have a mammogram for a lump that I had found turned out to be a cyst so I  knew that I would need to take care of this quickly
1	When I was diagnosed with diabetes, I already knew a lot about it. My mother had diabetes all of her adult life. She couldn't see well enough to draw her insulin from the bottles. I have done it for her many times.
-1	I suffered a heart attack in november 2014,while already in the hospital having a left side hip replacement.I had already had the replacement,and was in the recovery room,when i had the heart attack.doctors told me that had i not already been in the hospital,i would not have survived,as i have one main artery closed,and  have a stint in another artery.
-1	i really do not have to much knowledge, except with what problems i have, i could tell someone about them
-1	When I went to the doctor, and I didn't even know I had some high blood pressure problems, or even heart problems, when they start to tell you, that you are in serious condition, you truly do not realize how serious it is, till it starts happening to u.
-1	When I had a c section they sewed my stomach lining.  My stomach became huge & I had to have surgery again.  The way my stomach was sticking out it was obvious something was wrong.
1	The experience in my life that show I know something about medical issues is when my nieces call me to come over to their homes to check on the problems the kids are having with injuries....illnesses or insect bite they might have...They want to know if they should take the kids to the doctor and want my opinion....This happens all the time so I must know something.I haven't been wrong yet..
1	When I had a stress fracture in my foot. I hadn't had a traumatic event to cause a broken bone, but with the symptoms I was having, I was able to figure out it was a small fracture anyway due to stress from exercise and sports. My doctor confirmed that it was indeed a stress fracture. 
-1	Well, I haven't really had that much experience with knowledge of health and medical issues. I just have what the ordinary person would know about these things. A Slight knowledge, I would say..
1	About 14 years ago, I was diagnosed with high cholesterol. I could not believe it because I hardly eat out, don't eat fried food or junk food, hardly eat sweets or fatty food. I asked my Dr. if my body could make it. She tested me and confirmed it and wanted to give me meds. I suggested oatmeal and exersice. After oatmeal and exercise for 30 days everything was cool. Now I eat oatmeal a few times a week and exercise regularly.
-1	I knew when I was pregnant just by the way my body felt. The Dr said it was too soon to tell but I was correct.
1	My sister died of a hole in her heart at the age of eight in 1959.  I was about ten .  I learned a lot about the heart and how it works from listening to the adults discuss my sisters problem
1	I read and analyze chart notes daily mostly pertaining to injuries from car accidents. An injured party was diagnosed with a concussion, but only had head aches and not other symptoms that are typical with a concussion, I analyzed based on conversations with her that she actually had headaches caused by a cervical strain sprain.
-1	I have very little experience with health and medical issues,  I know that fruits and veggies are good for a persons health and less meat but other than that, I dont know
-1	When I went to see an orthopedic surgeon for my back I had medical background that I could look at the xrays and could see my spine was bone on bone and understood what he told me needed to be done
-1	I like to have incuranse becuase it will help me and my family too especially my kids actually , Anyway health is very interesting
-1	My husband was diagnosed with cancer  and I had to help him decide on treament and what his best choices were in oncologists and treatment centers
-1	To make sure that we know the different risks that can come with taking medication and doing different producures that can recognize different medical issues 
-1	I have a Asthma so anytime someone brings it up I have a lot of knowledge about t and can always help them out
1	I had a partial knee replacement about 8 months ago & that was scary enough for me.  I had go go through so many tests in order to have surgery. 
-1	I had to have a breast biopsy done because I Had an abnormal mammogram and and unusual biopsy, so I had surgery to remove  the mass, it was benign.
-1	Had a broken leg due to being hit on a bicycle.  Understood the procedures I needed to go through in addition to physical therapy requirements.
-1	when i was told i had health problem I got more education about what i have. i have had good and bad days
1	When I started wheezing after exercising I connected that to my childhood asthma issues and put two and two together. I realized that I had exercise induced asthma even if it's not as bad as it was when I was a kid.
-1	The loss of 2 sons within 3 years of each other. It is the worst feeling a parent can have. I have nothing else o say
1	My experience is very minimal.  I do watch the news and gather my knowledge from those sources.  Knowledge is not always the way to judge what to do when issues arise.
1	i worked security in the er for ten lousy emotional weird years, strung out on mongoose and farrier anf wish for a world run by the trumps
-1	My mother had leukemia and I used to go to the doctor with her and I would inform the doctor about what my mother neglected to tell him, because I understood how serious the situation was and what he needed to know to try to help her.
-1	When I had to have a c section, I did a lot of research about what that would mean for me and my body, as well as for my baby. I thought that I had a good idea about what would happen post surgery 
1	I had a pain in my side and when it persisted I felt there might be a problem.  I felt my side on the exterior I felt a buldge so I took my concern to the doctor and had him evaluate it.
-1	i had back pain went to the doctor and he said it was arthritas and nothin good be done i had a blood test and my psr was over 5 so i will be getting a biopsy for prostate cancer
-1	I recently had breast cancer and i had no faith in the medical department.  I was never told about nutruition. 
1	called 911 when it appeared someone was having a heart attack and notified appropriate personnel on site in the interim
-1	my family has a high rate of heart disease, so when my mother died at age 66 I knew I had to take care of health.
-1	I have always read or looked up any information on diseases. I'm still not 100% sure about a lot of medical treatments and causes and cures
1	Took my Mom to a Cardiologist and she wasn't telling him everything she needed to tell him.  He was going to prescribed warfarin, and I told the doctor she was very unsteady and had fallen several times and she shouldn't take it; I was right!
1	My father is disabled after a traumatic brain injury.  My entire life is about demonstrating health or medical issues.  Change a G-tube, did it.  Change a treache, did it.   Empty urinals, change diapers, give medication through G-Tube, I can tell you every thing you want to know about brain injury and the effects post coma.  Mood changes, check, anger, check, 
-1	I can't really think of an experience at this time, because when I found out that I have Lupus in 2015 I knew nothing at all about it. Before that I've basically gotten good results
1	I work at an animal hospital and have to relay medical information everyday to pet owners.  I've been there for 9 years and a lot of stuff has sunk into my brain to the point that i'm able to give advice to friends and family about some questions they may have about their pets.  As far as human medicine, I live a fairly healthy life and actually havent been to a doctor in several years.
-1	Relating effectively with patients is among the most valued skills of clinical care. As a beginning clinician, you will focus your energies on gathering information. At the same time, by using techniques that promote trust and convey respect, you will allow the patients story to unfold in its most full and detailed form. Establishing a supportive interaction helps the patient feel more at ease when sharing information and itself becomes the foundation for therapeutic clinicianpatient relationships. 4 Because illness can make patients feel discouraged and isolated, A feeling of connectedness with the doctor, of being deeply heard and understood, reduces this feeling of isolation and despair. This feeling is the very heart of healing
-1	No school knowledge, just stuff pick up from my wife, who is very knowledgeable regarding the subject...she is a practicing psychotherapist, and a former RN...
1	My son had a heart transplant I learned very quickly how to convert meds from mg to ml.  Also you learn so much just sitting in the hospital day after day.
-1	none. Not a doctor or anyone that deals with health or medical issues, but have treated someone involved in an auto accident, cuts bruises and shock
-1	Everyday is a knowledge of health and medical issues just waking my up with pain or no pain very hard to say been lucky so far 
-1	I was told I would be put on cholesterol medication if my cholesterol didn't lower so I lost wait and changed my diet my cholesterol went down and I didn't need put on medicine for it
-1	I was over medicated during an outpatient surgery. The medical knowledge about the drugs given to me by the medical professional. They did all they could to help me.
-1	I have blood tests and yearly mammograms.  I understand about false positives, and luckily have not had that experience.
-1	I really haven't had any medical conditions besides having high blood pressure which I'm maintaining at this very moment.
-1	I have very little healthcare knowledge. However the questions asked were need know and interesting to do further research
-1	Husband has diabetics so I have tried to read everything I can on this to keep him as healthy as I can.
-1	I am not sure if I understand much about health and medical issues unless it it something simple like a common cold
-1	I am not really sure. I usually look up information on my conditions and talk to my doctor about what I have learned.
-1	I have extreme severe glaucoma and I've had 4 laser and 3 implants in both of my eyes.  I have lost mostly all of my peripheral vision and my eye specialist is the doctor I have seen more than any other doctor in my lifetime  
-1	i my ,i have been lucky and been very health , just to have my gallbader out . but other then that been very heaith person .
1	Once again I refer to the stroke that I had in 2012. I spent 3 months in 3 hospitals and afterwards went through rehab.
1	No large events. I just find a have a reasonably ok understanding of medical issues.I try to stay on top of coverage and read information from my dr or insurance co carefully.
1	I have had numerous health issues in which I had to be able to understand my own test results.  However, I am also a mother of four, and some of my children have had ongoing problems.  One of my daughters began to have fibrol kidney infections at an early age.  As soon as she would end a round of antibiotics, she would get sick again.  I had to explain to the doctors at the hospital in detail every infection she had had and when they occured, as well as, symptoms, etc.  she received IV antibiotics for a week.  While there, she had a VCUG, which showed a false negative for kidney reflux.  Later, she was positively diagnosed with kidney reflux .  She had the deflux procedure twice because even though the success rate was less than open kidney surgery, it was by far less invasive.  If we had to we could do open surgery later.  Thankfully, the deflux procedure worked.
-1	I was pregnant with my son and I understood that having high blood pressure is very dangerous and that it can hurt the baby as well. 
-1	I don;t know a whole lot about medical issues, but I do a bit of research on my own. I do like to do certain things and knowing different things.
-1	When my aunt became ill and the doctors were testing her to find out why she had suddenly lost her eyesight and became disoriented my mother said it was because she had gotten AIDS from her friend was as homosexual. I had to convince her that my aunt could not contract AIDS without having blood contact and blindness was not a symptom of AIDS, which the doctors confirmed - she did not have AIDS.
-1	I have had a total hysterectomy, both knees replaced and my right hip replaced.... All in the past five years.
-1	My husband was experiencing heart failure.  His blood pressure was high and he had excessive swelling in his ankles and abdomen.  He also had difficulty in breathing as well as crackles in his lungs signifiying fluid.
-1	My ex husband of eighteen years , at the age of twenty eight started showing signs of confusion and hallucinations .I did not understand at first what was going on until he went to go see a mental health facility .And, he was diagnosed with being paranoid.
-1	After being diagnosed with heart failure I read up on the condition and realized that with the help of my doctor I needed to change my salt intake and amount of food I age.
-1	I was informed that I was pre diabetic.  I reduced my intake of sweets. Iincreased my intake of whole grains, vegetables and increased my exercise to lower my blood glucose.
-1	I suffered with gallbladder disease for a very long time, and it was only after I had researched it that it was addressed-after I became convinced it was the problem, I insisted on the necessary testing to diagnose it and was hospitalized immediately to have my gallbladder removed.
1	I teach a math for nurses class at a local community college as well as regular research in my own personal health and wellness.
-1	I generally am unaware of most medical statistics because it has never affected me. iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
-1	I have acid reflux related disease.  It makes me feel nauseated from time to time.  But I was informed dearly about this disease by my doctor.
1	I don't have an experience from my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.This isn't applicable to me.
-1	My math skills may be lacking but my brains not.  My husband died of dementia, which is not the same as Alzheimer. It's tough to be a care giver to someone you love and tougher to put them in hospice when they are dying.
-1	I can't think of a time that demonstrated any unusually high level of knowledge involving medical issues.  Guess I can best answer the qyestion by saying I an usualy able to tell if a person has a virus by symptoms they claim to have.
-1	I had a heart attack and was told to quit smoking or riak another heart attack so I quit smoking that day.
1	I researched treatment options for a medical condition, and the physician agreed with my approach with the addition of complementary methods. 
-1	I grew up way before there were cell phones and both my parents worked. I never called my mother or father unless there was an extreme emergency. My mother's parents lived with us and my grandfather was exhibiting symptoms of dementia. I was probably in grade 6 when I came home and found him on the landing of the stairs to the second floor of the house. I asked him if he was in pain and he didn't seem to be in any so I got a pillow and a blanket and checked to see if there were any black and blue marks and waited for my mother to come home. I thought that it was dangerous to tell her and have her drive. She came home and called my uncle who was a doctor and my grandfather was fine.
-1	Web sites such as WebMD and other google search sites as I always research every drug, every diagnosis and all information I can gather regarding my current health status
-1	With my diabetes I learned about A1c and my average readings over a course of time and how to control them
1	When my sister fell from a tree and broke her back, I knew to tell people not to move her. Also, when my mom was bleeding before her hystercomy, I told her she should probably be taking iron.
-1	I need no knowledge of health and medical issues because I trust my doctor about everything including my health
-1	I was in the Emergency dept for chest pain. I had a slightly elevate blood level that could indicate a blood clot. The resident wanted to do a CT, I understood enough about lab values to refuse the CT and decrease my exposure to radiation.
-1	dont have no replies to this question have no idea I dont do mammograms..im Just living life to the fullest if i start listening to dr reports i'll go spiraling down
1	I went to college for four years to become a Medical Laboratory Scientist. It eqipped me to know a fair amount about disease and health conditions. Though I am not always the best with math word problems.
1	I am a nurse so i have the ability to demonstrate my knowledge of health care issues. you can count on me to be accurate
-1	I've had family talk about their health issues several times, and I gave them the information they needed to fix their problem effectively.
-1	I was diagnosed with Anemia and I understood what the condition was and why I had it. I understand that the body needs a certain amount of iron for our red blood cells for our bodies to function properly.
1	I was trained in combat first aid in the military. When stationed in California I assisted in delivering a child. The mother having gone into labor on the access road to the base in the early hours of the morning
-1	none any visit to the doctor is for my health and any information I receive demonstrate what condition I may or may not have
-1	I don't want to demonstrate so I'll just set here and write a bunch of gibberish and nonexistent words.
-1	I assisted in helping a civilian from heat stroke during the heat of summer of 110 degrees. I've been informative to EMT people and knowledgeable about medical history of my family members 
1	My mother and maternal grandfather both died of heart disease. Because of this, I know that geneticly I'm at an increased risk of having heart related issues.
-1	i  have no idea on what to say about this  and it is amazing  and fun to take  and love it  they are amazing and  nice and caring
1	I am a blood donor.  My first time donating was about ten years ago.  Then, I had some ovarian cysts that caused me to become anemic.  I have since become more active and am back to donating again.  My vitals are in great shape!
-1	There has never been a time in my life that has demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
1	I've more than once come upon an accident scene and had the presence of mind to prevent people from moving someone until EMTs could arrive and assess the situation; on one of those occasions, the person had snapped her ankle and her foot was hanging to the side yet someone wanted to help her stand.  As a mom, there have been more instances over the years than I can call to mind.
-1	I studied up on radiation and chemo to completly understand what I could expect while going thru treatments
1	I have learned basic health from school and classes.  Most of this was math and it was really easy to do.  If it was actual medical stuff, I would not know how to do it.
-1	when i fold out i had a kidney stone gallstones and i needed my gallbladder out of my body.i tried to use home remedies to help with pain and ease
-1	I was diagnosed with Bipolar Disorder and through testing I was able to determine the right dosage of medication. I figured out that 25mg under the dosage caused mood swings, fainting, and dizziness while 25mg over caused fatigue. These medical trials taught me to stay active about my health.
-1	I don't really have expierence with medical information so this was kind of hard for me to fill out accurately
-1	Read well about the disease I have to know the risks I run and what diet I can follow how to take the medicine as explained
1	A few years ago I had a very stressful co-worker who  made my life miserable.  I developed Atypical Facial Pain.  The initial sensations were weird, hard to describe and I didn't know what direction to go in.  Initially, I thought the sensations were related to allergies, a cold, tooth issue.  I remember calling my primaries office one day and when they ask what my issues were and I said that my face was numb.  The nurse rushed off the phone and said I want you to immediately call 911.  I'm like no ... I just need an apt today.  We recommend you get to the ER.  Having had the sensations for a while, I knew that it was not life threatening and need to start to find out the cause and how to treat my issues.
-1	The time my blood pressure rose and I suspected my birth control pills were the culprit and I was correct after going to doctor.
1	I had a devastating short term illness that caused me to learn a lot about the health care system . I dealt with lots of doctors 
-1	I was diagnosed with chronic kidney disease and renal stenosis. In many cases the doctors will explain the issues I am having and then I'll go home and google it so it's in terms I understand. Once I read up I am able to associate some of the doctors terms with ones they use at follow up appointments 
-1	When was diagnosed with copd . There is a very low percentage of people who get it wthout never smoking . Well I'm one of then because I was exposed too some chemicals that give it to me.
-1	Its   more   of   a   mental  health   issue  with   me   but   also   have  physical   ailments  that  I   often   dismiss   because  I   really   don't   want   to   hear   a   bad  report   about   something
1	I was told that I had high cholesterol and was prescribed statins to lower my cholesterol.  I did some research and found out that diet and exercise can also lower cholesterol.  I changed my diet and began to exercise.  I lowered my cholesterol and was able to quit taking statins.
-1	When I was exercising and felt the soreness the next day. I knew it was DOMS because then the day after it got even worse which told me I worked myself out too hard and need to tone it down some.
-1	I had a stroke & had tests done & also I had cancer & had a hysteric done to get rid of the cancer. During all of this I looked up a lot of information on all of it.
1	I don't have much knowledge of health or medical issues except with the effects of the medical conditions that I already have. And I also Google search on the internet to look up medical information.
1	After my husband was diagnosed with basal cell carcinoma, I went online to get information about the MOHS surgery he was scheduled to have.  When meeting with the P.A for pre op counseling, I was able to ask questions that were pertinent to the surgery and to his recovery.
-1	 Taking care of one's self, raising children and helping to raise grandchildren you learn many things.  As I am now older and look back I wish I would have known more about natural medicine and wish I had not been brain washed as this society is about western medicine.
-1	10 or so years ago; my friend said she described the symptoms of vertigo  she was suffering.  Her and her father had never heard of vertigo.  I knew from what she was saying that she was suffering from vertigo and had her cousin drive her and I to the doctors.
-1	When I was diagnosed with breast cancer I spoke with a few doctors before I felt comfortable deciding on the treatment I would take and the risks involved. FI looked at the percentage of different alternatives and decided which path to go
1	My sister's friend had an episode with his father where he didn't know what was wrong with him and couldn't move his left side. I asked him about the symptoms and let him know his dad most likely had a TIA and needed to go to the doctor.
1	My doctor, aware that I have kidney problems, prescribed metformin and sulfonurea drugs to lower my blood sugar.  I was already controlling my type 2 diabetes fairly well with insulin injections.
-1	I dont know anything about health other than making sure my health is good and my kids health is good.
-1	Doctors diagnosed me with asthma but then I researched it and it didn't make any sense so I self diagnosed myself.
1	I was told that I had gout.  I don't like taking medication.  I decided that rather than put poison in my body I would try the natural approach.  I used black cherry and celery seed to take care of the problem.
-1	I really can't think of anything except maybe natural or self treatment (i.e., pink eye)....used a solution of baby shampoo and water and got rid of it without going to a doctor.
-1	On April 10th 2004 I woke up and went to take a shower to get ready for work.while taking a shower I started feeling extreme pain in the right side of my chest. It felt like a thousand needles sticking in my chest
-1	Nothing really sticks out in my mind. All I can say is that anytime I have seen a doctor and they gave me information that I already knew about and was easy to comprehend
-1	when i have virigo AND i did not know what is about.  i would havee to read it in a medical web site to better understand
-1	My friend having prostate cancer .  Me having cervical  cancer,  and working in the medical field for years!
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issue occurred: my partner was at the Dr.  He called asking about his prescriptions.  I told him what they were and each were for. He was flabbergasted.
-1	My aunt had breast cancer and I had to care for her. That was probably the hardest times ever. To see her go through that pain was horrible.
-1	i had all the symptoms of carpal tunnel but i was tested for that and don't have it. i read some more and discovered that the symptoms of spinal stenosis mimic that of capral tunnel. i was tested and do have spinal stenosis.
-1	When my fiance had problems with his stomach , i was able to help him out and got him seen asap. He was fine for awhile
-1	Knowing what I was being diagnosed with from having a prior diagnosis or know someone who has. I may even know alittle about it by research that i may have done prior.
1	My doctor said my liver enzymes were elevated. I researched the problem and found herbs and vitamins that help lower enzymes. The next visit I had my liver enzymes were normal.
1	Several years ago I had chronic bronchitis. I had seen a doctor and treated it with medication more than once, but it persisted. Eventually I began coughing up rust colored sputum, running a fever and feeling generally ill. I knew that was not a symptom of brochitis, so I researched and foundthat it indicated an abcess in the lung. I went to the emergency room and told the nurse what I suspected, but she assured me that it was very unlikely and confidently told me I most likely had pnuemonia. After several hours of tests, it turned out that I did in fact have an abcess on my lung for which I was hospitalized and treated with heavy antibiotics for 6 days as well as a month more after being realeased.
-1	My mother all ways told me stay in shape in work out to stay fit and u will be healthy and u can live a long life
-1	12yrs ago I came in from work(i'm a local truckers that haul dirt and other thing) anyway icame in and when I got out of the truck I could hardly walk and felt very numb. Went straight to the clinic they though I had a heart attack but didn't. It took them 3mos. To find out it was my back.
-1	I become diabetic type 2. I went to a class about this and received a certificate of completion, to learn about diets, carbs, etc.. but I am terrible with math !!! Lol
1	I have been working for nearly 30 years as a RN.  5 years as a bedside nurse and 25 years as a nurse case manager.  I float to every service in a busy university teaching hospital and have vast knowledge of many specialties.  I assisted with counseling my family on various medical issues they are having, such as when my brother in law had a TBI and needed extensive treatments and rehabilitation.  
-1	Three years ago I had a hysterectomy for a prolapsed uterus.  Many years ago in college I took a class where a nurse was the instructor and told us about a patient of hers that experienced the same thing.  Because of this I knew what was happening.
1	My doctor, knowing my list of prescribed medications and having gone over them with me during my appointment, prescribed me a new medication that could have had very serious adverse side effects, including death, due to a reaction with one of my other prescriptions. Thankfully I knew not to just take doctors at their word and did my research. I called and asked for a different medication. 
1	My daughter was fed on a tube for the first 3 years of her life. Most doctors insisted that she would only thrive if she stayed on the feeding tube. I disagreed and sought out a doctor that would help me safely get my daughter off of the tube feedings. I found one, followed his advice and my daughter was off the tube within 9 months. 
-1	When I experience indigestion on a regular basis I consulted my doctor who requested that I be tested to see if I have acid after it was determined that the cause was acid reflux I made the necessary changes to my diet.
-1	Having 3 back surgery's and looking to have my 4th back surgery that I need. I  can't get any one to help me out. I keep on trying every Doctor that I can find.
1	I am allergic to many things.  One of my reaction is hives.  I recognize it when my son had hives and was able to figure out what it was in reaction to.  I gave him Benadryl.
-1	The way this question is worded does not give a concise direction for the desired way in which to answer the question. I have an extensive knowledge of medical and health issues.
-1	had  cancer behind my nose was treated with radeatuion and cemo all went preaty well tahat was back in 2010 know i a doing fine and well
-1	I cannot think of and experience in my life that I had a great deal of knowledge of a health or medical issue or problem.
1	I told my late husband many times what he should or shouldnt do for his symptoms, but he never listened.  He would then ask his Dr the same question, nd get the same answer I gave him.
1	I once got bit by a snake and told the doctor it was a snake bite. He thought it was an insect. Finally I brought the snake into the office and proved it to him.
-1	when I had a bruising problem and had to go into the hospital to get tests run and it was discovered that I had a condition that could be easily treated
1	I had tuberculosis when I was about 25 years old. I learned a lot about being tested positive and actually having the progressed disease and therefore being contagious. My husband and 3 children tested positive but were not latent. I however was latent and contagious. We all had to take meds but will always test positive...etc..t learned a lo I lot that year about the disease. Thank God I live in this century.
-1	went to school for medical billing and coding and made straight A's on all my medical courses. Even in high school I made straight A's in Biology. Love learning about anything medical. I find it fascinating.
-1	having to do research o the medical conditions that I have. understanding the medications that I have to take as well as the side effects. 
1	At one point, I was incorrectly diagnosed by a doctor, and actually found the correct diagnosis through my own research.
-1	I am not knowledgeable about health and medical issues. I only know what my doctor helps me understand about my own. 
-1	Am experience in my life that demonstrated my health issues was when I was told that I had high cholesterol and I needed to start eating healthier and cut back on some of the foods that I eat to make sure that it is something that won't tomurn out to be a permanent thing
-1	I took my bp medicines a few hours before a doctor appointment. My go was 147/84. I had taken my regular daily dosages. But I wanted a more normal reading and when I got to my appt. I took 1 more medicine. At my appt. my reading was 120/64. I knew what to do to get  more favorable reading.
-1	Because of swelling, stiffness, and pain in my fingers, wrists, ankles, and toes, I fully understood when the rheumatologist told me I suffer from rheumatoid arthritis.
1	When I was diagnosed with something, I asked the doctor questions, then I followed up my research by checking WebMD and other websites to see what I could do to help lessen my symptoms and ways of getting off of a prescription.
-1	family member had heart attack, knew to encourage daily walking, eating less meat and fat, more fish, vegtables etc.
1	After repeatedly receiving abnormal lab results that would correct after treatment for a little bit of a time.  After so many tries, I decided to get a second opinion.  I also had second opinions regarding a family member.  
1	I can't think of any one time, but I have been able to explain some medical terms or procedures to someone else based on the knowledge I have.
-1	I had severe abdominal pain.  I knew I was having a gall bladder attack.  When rushed to the hospital they treated me for my heart.  I was released and a week later was rushed to er with a gall bladder attack again and my gall bladder was removed.
1	When my mom had cancer. I was at the hospital a lot with her, so I learned a lot about her condition. I got a certificate as a home health aide so I was able to be her health aide
1	I had a very bad headache that felt different than my normal headache. I went to the hospital and insisted that this headache was not a normal headache. The doctor did a CAT scan and found a pituitary cyst that was surgically removed.
-1	I was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2008. When I visited my doctor, she recommended a biopsy.  I understood what she meant
1	I'm cpr and first aid trained.  I'm not afraid to call 911 or administer care in an emergency situation.
1	I was working on a phd in neuroscience, and have been in multiple medical environments. I have had to interact and analyze lab results for myself and for my grandparents.
-1	I actually used to attend college to be a nursing assistant. I also attended school to be a medical biller and coder and I learned so much through medical terminology and even having my own medical experiences.
-1	I really can't think of anything. I have high cholesterol and high blood pressure and take medication for these conditions. I guess those would qualify. I do understand that I have to keep both conditions lower rather than higher.
-1	When explaining to my mom about how bad her lungs were from COPD, and how smoking even one cigarette could hurt her more, and so on.
-1	my mother was killed by breast cancer. She had both breast removed of course her life was never the same and my dads life was changed along with the rest of us, she was one of the 30
-1	I know when blood is spurting from a wound the first thing is to stop the bleeding and apply direct pressure or a tourniquet if an artery is severed
-1	When working with a person in the rehab gym I may have to check resting BP with some people before exercise and then afterwards.
-1	I have tried to stay on top of the latest health info. I try to take my doctor's advice and try to be more careful when it comes to my health as I have aged
1	I have a chronic condition and I have learned to do my research and be my own advocate. When researching a medical topic, the source material is very important.
1	I've worked as a CNA doing clinicals in college a few years ago. We had to apply what we had learned in the field. We also did class demonstrations for practice and skill mastery. 
-1	When I was 2mo pregnant with my second child, I never got thirsty. I could never recall the last time I had drank anything. I'd sometimes go a day or so with no water, maybe an occasional soda during the evenings. One morning I was rudely awakened with a pain I could not describe but somehow felt like I was being strangled on the inside of my lower left side. I went to the ER and came to realize I had Pylonepuhritis. 
-1	I have friend that was having a gall bladder attack. Since I have had gall stones and surgery to correct, I was able to identify her attack.
1	Frequent dealings with doctors and physicians.  Reading online articles and books.  Watching documentaries on health and medical discoveries. 
-1	My mom had a mini stroke a couple years ago and I had started school for medical assisting. Having a couple classes I understood about MRIs and was able to see what didn't belong in her scan
-1	i really don't know what the question is or how to explain it i really don't know i really don't know how
1	i worked in various environments in the past filling prescriptions and counseling patients on the drugs used to treat their various medical issues.
-1	I really don't have any health experience. I try to look things up online or I ask friends; or family. They have no answer. I then call the doctoer
-1	Uh....nothing really comes to mind. I'm honestly at the point in my life where it's more mind over matter when it comes to me getting sick.
1	I went in for a stress test a while back and it came back abnormal so they did a test to check. They went into my veins and while they were there they discovered  a blockage at 2 different places and installed stents.
-1	I don't know anything about what you are talking about I don't have any health problems and i never go to the doctor unless I need to
-1	My boyfriend was having chest pains. He was anxious about a new job that he had started and was being left alone to manage and close the store after only 2 days of training. The Doctors did several tests to find the cause of the pain.  When i went to visit him in the ER i asked if anxiety could be the cause, and they asked if he was anxious.  They prescribed anti anxiety meds and helped him come up with a plan to speak with his employer about having additional support for a few more days and the chest pains vanished.
1	I worked for a state mental institution when I was a young man, we had to do TPR's on patients. I think that about sums it up.
-1	When my fiance past away from a rare bladder cancer 3 yrs back i learned alot from that. Still trying to heal from it but it takes a lot to understand the condiition how to treat and how to comfort.
-1	When I took antibiotics I know when I take it I can get hurt if I don't take probiotics. It can be risky and hurt my digestive track.
-1	When my wife had a stroke I knew from previously dealing with family members what to expect . So was pleasantly surprised when she beat the averages
1	Nothing really comes to mind except diagnosing myself. I know when I have the common cold versus when I have a sinus infection or bronchitis.
-1	The girl I'm engaged to has health problems at time bc of her brain injury and it cAuses her to have a lot  neurological problems 
1	i have history of self inflected knee problems (sports).  as I was skiing few years back I broke my ACL and tore my MCL.  From my previous experience and discussions with doctors I know that the tear was serious but would not require ambulance.  So I got myself back to my car, drove home, slept a good night with help some pain killers and called doctor the following day, monday for an appointment.
-1	When I had a surgery that the doctor did a oops surgery on.I learned a lot about medical information because I had to go through issues for a year.
-1	when i got the flu, i knew what the symptoms of flu are so I figured it was the flu and i also knew that there were certain things i needed to do to help myself get better and stronger.
-1	i just know that when my kids where sick they needed to go to thet docotor or have soem medicin and also i have allergies and i know whne i need medicine
-1	I have had shoulder surgery and after my surgery I had to learn how to move and use my arm so I don't pull my shoulder out again
-1	I was taking care of a elderly woman for a friend and she fell and hit her head on the way to the bathroom. I was able to assess the situation and keep her safe until the ambulance came to give her stitches.
1	At one of my annual cardiovascular stress tests, I received an indication of a possible blockage in my heart. I was told that it could be a false positive reading because the machine was apt to produce that in 10% of the readings. I chose to have an angiogram to rule out blockage bacause my mother had suffered blockages that caused her to have open heart surgery.
-1	Deciding that my quality of life vs menopausal symptoms was with me trying the hormonal patch to give me a better quality of life
-1	My children have asthma and I share any information I have or knowledge I have to inform people about this disease. There is a correlation between people that have asthma and eczema. If you have asthma you have a 50% chance of having eczema and vice versa. If you have a family member with asthma you have a 50% to have asthma.
-1	I just wanted to say I hope I am doing really well on this survey because I dist know it was gonna be about math that isn't my strong sute and I'm very angry 
1	I was diagnosed with breast cancer 2 years ago, I chose a surgeon based upon doctor recommendation and recommendation of a friend. The surgeon assisted me in choosing an oncologist, who placed me on aggressive chemo therapy. Although I had originally planned to work through the chemo, I quickly realized that this was too stressful, and went on medical leave. I researched diets to help me deal with the chemo.  I opted for a double mastectomy (I couold have opted for a lumpectomy on one breast) in order to minimize my chances of remission.
1	I researched alternative methods for hip and knee replacement and that knowledge helped when finding out about umbilical cord stem cell injections.
-1	Going to college and getting a degree in the medical field and passing the cerification exam on my first try.
-1	My diagnosis for fibromyalgia was trying.  I had many tests and there was differing opinions among my doctors.  I finally was able to get a diagnosis that made sense to me.  It was a scary time.
1	when I saw a baby dr for my third child and said I wouldn't accept blood transfusions; he had to argue a bit about that in case of great blood loss. I knew that it was actually needing volume in the blood vessels that was first needed in that case, then something to carry oxygen.
-1	I was caregiver for my husband that had throat cancer, heart attacks and triple by pass plus a feeding tube for over three years with nothing by mouth plus he and I were and I still am diabetics.
-1	I have been a medical professional for over twenty years. I best experience was when I successfully  preformed CPR on on a patient. 
-1	When I have had to switch doctor's, I havehad to educate them a lot of times on my diabetes and my treatments.
-1	I had many biopsies for cervical cancer. I even had the leep procedure.                                                                                                                                        
-1	When I first started feeling shooting pains in my feet I recalled reading something about neuropathy years before that in a newspaper and I figured that was what was going on with me and I turned out to be right.
-1	WHEN I HURT MY LEG, I HURT A  POPPING SOUND IN MY CALF AND I HAD A HARD TIME WALKING AND IT SWELLED UP AND TURNED BLACK AND BLUE. I REMEMBER THE R I C E PHRASE, REST-ICE-COMPRESSION-ELEVATION. THIS HELPED A GREAT DEAL AND I WAS ABLE TO HEAL FASTER AS A RESULTS
-1	I had a friend who was suffering from some acute abdominal pain with a high fever. The pain was centralized to one specific side, so I informed my friend she needed to be seen for appendicitis 
-1	I graduated  from nursing school but have been humbled by this test. Math is not my strong suit. Lol!
-1	I know only what I am told by a doctor or someone in the health field. I learn from what doctors tell me to do and take 
-1	When I was a child I found out I had scoliosis very bad. I was told I would need to wear a back brace and if I didn't I needed to have spinal surgery. Needless to say I've been a hypochondriac since. 
-1	A couple days ago a person I know accidentally cut they're wrist and if it wasn't for me holding pressure on the wound they would have lost a lot of blood 
-1	when I had my period and I knew that I was bleeding to much and something was wrong and I had to have something done
1	MY experience simply include instances where I was tested on my knowledge of health care and medical issues
-1	When I has my mammogram about 2 years ago, which they find a very little lump in upper part of my breast. Then I have to go and take X-rays again with an expert, but it turn out to be very same little lump that was there 10 years ago, with no change.
-1	I developed a nagging cough after being prescribed a high blood pressure medicine.   When I went back two months later I still had the cough, but had looked up on the internet to see if it was a side effect of the medicine and it was.   The doctor was in the middle of saying that she would up the dose of the medicine for my high blood pressure when I mentioned that I had read that it could be causing my constant  cough.   She changed me to another medicine and the cough went away.
-1	when talking to my doctor about some symptoms I was experiencing I was able to describe things and suggest possible cuases
-1	i have a bug bite on my ankle that i have been treating at home.  I know that its not infected and that its healing because its getting smaller in size.  
-1	none as I have been of excellent health all my life thus far.  I can't say anything else as I haven't had an experience
1	I raised two daughters. I have been through high temperatures and  vomiting once a month and even a daughter being bullied so much that she pulled her hair out. I worked through all of these situations. My oldest daughter was hit b y a car. I slept at the hospital until she was in a regular room. Before that my mother had surgery and she died in the hospital .I had to tell them autopsy or not , where to send the vody etc. 
-1	once I broke my finger, but i didn't really pay attention to it. When I realized it was swallowing and bruising i realized that it was broken 
-1	I am not really sure how to answer this questions, al health and medical issues are different, there isnt a way for me to tell you how anything I have been through demonstrated my knowledge.
-1	I read a lot of medical information and try to find out everything I can especially if there is a problem with Meir someone in my family
-1	Can't say I've ever had such a incident in my entire life that I can remember. If I would have I would absolutely remember.
-1	My 17 year old granddaughter was not feeling well and had a fine red rash on her abdomen and i suspected Scarletina and that is what her diagnosis was.
-1	blood was taking to test for different health problems. when results were returned I listened to what doctor said and looked at papers giving to me to see results for myself
-1	I don't really claim to have knowledge of health or medical issues other than having three kids and knowing when they are really sick 
-1	I know you lying. The only thing I can be used to be a good girl . She said she was going to be okay with you and your family and friends and family services  numbers thats hiring manager of the day of school and college and university of California at the time to 
-1	when i had a flare up of IBS i knew i had to go to the emergerency room ASAP and they kept me in the hospital for 4 days 
1	I received a degree in Health Science so I'm informed and sensitive to many health issues in the Community. I'm willing to speak with people about their medical issues if they want to talk about. Talking with AARP members on the phone about problems that they're having, I contact a nurse via telephone about their symptoms and let them know what it sounds like. 
-1	One time a ran out of my breathing medicine. My dad went to get a refill but he wasn't quit enough.  I had an attack.  I new enough that my tubes had to open up.  The only thing that helped was putting my head in the freezer.  that did it great. 
1	I helped my sister when she was in the hospital and if I hadn't been there she probably would have died because of a situation that happened that I caught.
1	I went to college and majored in Exercise and Sport Science for 4 years.  I feel like I have a firm understanding of the body and health conditions.
-1	I have had children who have had ear infections.  I know when there is an ear infection, yet still had to make a doctor's appointment to confirm the ear infection before getting the prescription.  I am from a medical family, so medical issues have been discussed many times.
1	When my husband was diagnosed with diabetes, I understood what readings his blood sugar should be. I was able to help him understand this.
1	My son was vomiting up bile but all the xrays showed no issues.  I knew based on his stats that is was lokely not somethong viral.  I pressed th doctor to speak eith the sirgery team again and theu did another type of xray and found a small catch in bis bowel tbat was causong all the problems.
-1	when doctors explain things to me when i had a dvt and i was in the hospital it helped a lot and i learned new things 
1	I was taking blood pressure medicine. It worked well but several years later I started to get light headed. I rechecked it and it was now too low. I asked doctor to lower amount of medicine.
-1	I had to take a crash course in hepatitis c issues. I had to research the likeliest path of infection, and had a pretty heated argument with a doctor who kept insisting I was lying about never using intravenous drugs.
1	I sometimes have to explain instructions for treatments to my mom who is 66 and not very confident in herself
-1	I have a Masters degree in Social Work.  In the past, I've previously worked as a Clinical Social Worker.  So when talking with my doctor about depression, I knew the symptoms that I needed to tell my physician.  Recently, my mother was prescribed Buspar.  The physician's assistant prescribed it.  During my mother's last visit, I described to her doctor the increased symptoms of depression i.e. sadness, isolation, no joy in activities that she previously enjoyed, etc.  I explained to her doctor that her depression had increased, and that it would be helpful to prescribe my mother an antidepressant rather than just an anti anxiety.
1	i wasn't feel well and my hair kept falling out and kept gaining weight.  so i looked it up and it led me thyroid problems.  i was able to easily diagnose myself and get on medication quickly because my doctor tested me easily and was able to fix my problem.
-1	I myself have never experienced this nor do i have family members that that i know of but i have some friends that have very hard to deal with
-1	What are the best for me today and it was so good right now I have no idea why I have to do it all the best thing on TV and radio station licensed to the gym with 
1	Every time one member of my family gets sick, i always try to look for information before going to the doctor 
-1	My mother was a nurse and I studied to be a repitory therapist, even though that isnt what I got to do
-1	I am a medical assistant and I medical coder for over 20 years. so I understand a lot of the issues for health care.
1	I have high blood pressure and high sugar. When I lost 50 pounds , both went down to normal numbers. When I gained weight both went back up.
-1	I had a family member who was diagnosed with PAD, and COPD so I looked up both symptoms and side effects to make sure I totally understood what was going to be the outcome of both symptoms
1	"I knew i was pregnant weeks before a test could confirm. I can feel my heart ""malfunction"" more noticeable than most because of how  long I've had my issue."
-1	I GUESSTIMATED ON MOST. I USED THE MOST LOGICAL AND ESTIMATED NUMBER. I USED THE PERCETAGES TO FIGURE OUT  THE ANSWERS TO THE QUESTIONS.
-1	I can't think of any example of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.  I'm sorry but I can't think of one.
1	I think I can only relate to my own body in these terms.  For example, I suffer from migraines and I know what specific things can trigger one, or what I can do to help mitigate the onset of a migraine before I need medication.  
-1	I don't have much experience or knowledge of health or medical issues. I try to do research online to be more informed.
-1	Because I took three years of medical terminology classes in high school, i am able to understand doctors reports, and notes a little better 
-1	I had to demonstrate my knowledge of medical issues when my father was diagnosed with cancer. I had to help take care of him and I learned a lot of different skills in the process. 
-1	Before I go to the doctor I usually know what's wrong with me. I try my best to read and get alto of knowledge on illness and conditions. As when I had arhtitis in my knee I knew I had arthritis before going to the doctor because of the symtopms I was having was arhtitis symptoms and I had enough knowledge on arhtitis to know the symptoms.
-1	I'm not a health expert or anything but when ever people get a bloody nose they pinch it and tilt their head up when they're suppose to pinch and tilt their head down 
-1	I have not had an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health/medical issues. My husband has had several. He had a brain anyrsym, and multiple back surgeries though. 
1	It is hard for me to do this, I have only been hospitalized once and that was when I was four or five when I had my tonsils and adenoids removed.  Have had no broken bones or any thing other than a cold. 
1	When I had to switch doctors and explain my health issues, past testing, and treatment options.........
1	About 10 years ago, my father had quadruple bi pass surgery and he lived alone. He came to my home straight from the hospital and I took care of him for 9 months. Three years ago he took a stroke and again he stayed with my family until he passed two years ago. When he had his bi pass surgery I was also taking care of my husband who had major back surgery at the same time.
1	Many years ago I experienced a neck ache which was followed by a severe headache which no pain med took away.  I went to several doctors; primary care, ortho (for the neck issue) and even a chiropractor.  None could find what was causing the severe headache.  I kept saying that I thought it had something to do with my ears and after a lot of coaxing, I was sent to xray for mastoid problems and it was discovered that I had a mastoid infection.
-1	My knowledge of medical or health issues are always present in my life when I feel pain in my body, I know I nee3d to either take a over the counter pain reliever and rest  also know that if I cut myself or start bleeding, I need a bandage.
-1	I had a high psa count for many years and had several biopsies all negative and even a second opinion. I had an enlarged prostrate and take medicine and it's now normal
1	I was having very serious back pain.  I realized the pain was being caused by inflammation and that with spams it was I viscious circle.  I knew that both steroids and cortisone reduced inflamation.  I asked my doctor about cortisone steroid injections and they worked.
-1	last year I was told I had a slight heart mur mr and also that my skin was becoming to have vitilago in certain areas 
1	I experienced emotional problems early in my life and was quite sure that the problem was of a brain chemical deficiency or that certain things were not sending enough of the correct messages, as in seratonin, which cabn be helped with certain anti depressant or related drugs. Some work some dont. I have been on 28 of them and 4 have worked for approx 5 months.
-1	I spent 6 weeks  recovering from heart surgery and was very patient and understanding with most of my nurses as I understood why they did the things they needed to do. I learned mostly by working with seniors and lots of reading.
-1	I was a caregiver for my parents for 14 years total. I took them to all of their appointments and cared for them day and night for 14 years straight. I learned a lot.
1	I have fibromyalgia and chronic daily headaches as well as frequent migraines. I have been to many doctors - pain specialists, neurologists, etc. - as well as chiropractors
-1	I worked in a hospital for 37 years and was very familiar with medical documentation, test results, and terminology. I worked in medical records, radiology and as a unit secretary.
1	Just recently I overheard a man ask the butcher in the grocery store how long he should keep meat in the freezer.  The butcher didn't know but I had researched that recently.  I intervened and relayed the FDA into to them both.
1	Ive never really had any really in depth health issues that have needed me to have a strong knowledge of health or medical issues. I take this as a good thing to be honest. 
-1	When my child was diagnosed with autism.  i had to ask questions, learn and research information to help him and my family
-1	I became a certified nurses assistant when I was 18 years old and also became a emergency room secretary at Florida hospital when I was 19 years old. My mother was a physical therapist and spoke in medical terminology often.
-1	When I was pregnant I was diagnosed with gestational diabetes, my doctor explained at what level it was. I went to a Nutritionist and got on a special diet and it helped a lot but I also had to give up a lot of food that I was used to eating. I took care of myself as well as my unborn child. 
-1	I was prescipted Tynonel with codiene after a dentist visit after my first dose, I noticed I was having trouble breathing and itching. I recgonized ab allegric reaction and went to the ER
1	I learned quite a bit about health and medical issues when dealing with my mother's lung cancer. She was misdiagnosed for years and so we went through many specialists and treatment options trying to find out what was wrong with her. 
-1	i cant think of any. None i can actually think of . I dont know if any instances. None that i can think od
-1	Knowing that a certain type of chest pain is a sign of a heart attach. I had this pain 4 years ago and knew it was a heart attack and sought help at a hospital.
-1	Recently my significant other had a really bad cold and I could tell that is was bronchitis due to the fact that I 1) have had it before, 2) I am aware of what it sounds like, 3) I am aware of the symptoms from dealing with other people who have had it. 
1	I honestly haven't been in a situation that calls for me to demonstrate the knowledge I've learned and know.
1	I broke my ankle last year when I was going down my outside steps.  I knew quickly it wasn't just a sprained ankle so as soon as I could I loosened the laces on my shoe because I could feel my foot swelling.  I found out I had broken both bones in my lower leg.
-1	I had problems with acne all my adult life and i tried a lot of different prescriptions and birth control and nothing worked so i found an herbal remedy on my own and works great.
1	Sometimes when I hear of people having certain medical conditions, I at least have some idea what the condition involves, and I am always confident that I can learn more.
1	having to take ownership of my own health and seeing my primary care physician for texts and the occasional colds, etc.  Also primary care take of my children with their peditrician
1	Talking about my Tourette's Syndrome that I had heard that it can also affect my breathing or seeming to be stuffed up which explains why I seem congested often
-1	long time ago I told a co worker that she might have diabetes because of the symptons she was experiencing, she went to the doctor and was told she had diabetes.
1	I have numerous allergies and gastroenterology issues. I have to keep up with treatments and be aware of new ways to deal with my issues.
1	When I was 20 I had opitnuritus.  I was told that might be a precursor to MS.  I again had it at age 26 and 36.  At age 39 I was diagnosed with MS as result of a spinal tap as MRI's were not yet readily available.  No drugs were available.  When they were available 3-4 years later I had had no relapses so neurologist recommend no treatment as side effects were bad.  I have had only minimial direct symptoms in 33 years but many autoimmune disorders so I understand taking care of ones health, watching symptoms and being grateful for every day that one is in an upright postion and walking.
-1	being diagnosed with prostate cancer and having to choose the right treatment plan for me.  I had to choose between surgery knowing what the side effects or Radiation treatment knowing what the side effects could be.
1	This is a little silly, but I am often able to predict what diseases characters on TV shows have based on their symptoms and situation. I've correctly identified preeclampsia, schizophrenia, and diabetes.
1	I'm a smart guy. I've always followed health issues as my family had concerns since I was a kid, especially with heart/cholesterol issues.
-1	when i suffered with watery eyes and runny nose i demonstrated that this was simply allegies to the outside plants and not anything too serious
-1	I had done some research about some symptoms that I was having. When I went to the doctor, I was able to express my concern and give in greater detail what I think it could be.
-1	I suffer from depression and anxiety. Both prescription medications have side effects. The Lamictal prescription is probably the one that has a major effect: rashes. My doctor told me about it. I read the instructions that came with it. I do not have rases.
1	I was a nurse for over 30 years and am very familiar with most medicines when my doctor wants to put me on something new.  Family often asks me about health issues
-1	I was a care giver for my sister and mother who both had breast cancer.  I also took care of myself after having breast cancer.
1	Well I do a lot of reading about health and conditions to which my mother and I have.  My mother was having issues sleeping and I discovered because of one of her medicines she required more vitamin B 12.  Talked to the Doctor and she had my mom on B12 shots for a short while to get her back to healthy. 
1	I haven't had to demonstrate my knowledge before.  THe worst thing that has happened was a deep cut that needed stitches or a sprained ankle 
-1	I have been a caregiver to family members and had tI attend dr visits with them and care for them. I am also trained annually in firstv aid and cpr
-1	I have type II diabetes.  After taking classes, I have learned how to control my blood sugar using diet and exercise.  I count carbs trying to have no more than 60 at each of three meals a day.  (Carbs-dietary fiber)  I also exercise by either hiking at the local park or walking the treadmill at the gym.  So far it is working.  My last A1C was 5.1 and my blood sugar rarely goes above 120
-1	I spoke to a PA about my high cholesterol.  I knew from past experience that I had particular side effects from many medications for high cholesterol.  I had researched the side effects of newer medications and was prepared to speak with her about the possibilities and help make a decision about which medication I should take.
-1	When my husband had a heart attack and I had to give him CPR until the paramedics arrived.  They told me that it saved his life.
-1	I understand very little . I try to understand what all of my dr's try to tell me.. I never thought I would have the health problems I have had at the age I am.l
1	I was told two years ago that I had monoclonal gammopathy - a blood disorder that could develop into multiple myeloma.  I listened to everything my oncologist said but I came home and spent days researching about it online.  I wanted to make sure that I had a complete understanding of what was going on.
1	I am a breast cancer survivor and my husband is liver transplant survivor so we are very experienced with medical issues
1	When told that I was borderline diabetic I understood that I would need to watch my diet and exercise or else eventually need daily shots and the possibility/ probability of losing legs, arms, and sight as various family members and friends had. 
-1	I had an abnormal Pap smear which taught me what I did not know about Pap smears and what the various results mean. I did not know that there were different levels of an abnormal Pap smear. This has helped me know that an abnormal result can have many reasons.
-1	I had an abnormal breast reading and as a result had to have a biopsy done, on one of my breasts. I was informed I had calcium deposits in the particular breast that had to be removed and sent to a pathologist to screen for cancer. The biopsy on the breast was uncomfortable, and painful. The waiting was the worst for the results. I had a result of benign , which was good
-1	I have had only good experiences with my health and had good people help me out over the years to know all about these experiences i went through.
-1	When I was diagnosed with scoliosis. I thought it occurred in school age children not adults. The doctor explained why I was having the back pain. The scoliosis ex ray showed the curve on my spine.
1	after a few years of being told I was a borderline diabetic, my dr said I was now diabetic. at that time I stopped eating sweets, stopped adding sugar to my coffee, in general began eating healthier, began exercising more, etc, and next check up my dr said there was no sign of diabetes.
1	 I developed a sore underneath my big toe which was originally treated as gout, but turned out to be PAD.  I had to have a bilateral femoral bypass, followed by carotid surgery.  I learned an awful lot about how your body works going through all of that in the last 3 months.
-1	the experience that impacted my life to better health was having children it amde me want to make sure that i was healthy for them and to see them grow
-1	My husband had congestive heart failure and I had to take care of him for 4 years and learned everything I could about this disease. 
-1	i have a masters of science degree from a private university. i am also a patient who has a very serious and rare health condition i have been dealing with for years.
-1	I only get my knowledge about health care by looking and seeing what is out there I never trust a doctor
-1	I started hearing my heartbeat in my ears at night and new it was caused by high blood pressure. I went to the doctor to confirm this and sure enough  I had high blood pressure that required medication.
1	I was unable to talk because my throat burned and my tonsils were swelling. When I went to the doctor they told me it was laryngitis, which I was already pretty certain about, but the doctor confirmed things for me
1	I was proscribed a benzo for anxiety. I had an allergic reaction known as The Paradoxical Effect (which most doctors don't know about or understand) and so, when I brought these concerns up with my doctor, they attempted to place me on three different benzos, something that is COMMONLY known in the medical industry to be fucking fatal. I knew this thanks to indipendant research and told them no. 
-1	i helped my 11 years old son who had a cough attack and thanks to my knowledge he could overcome. That was a great experience
1	I wouldn't say I'm very knowledgeable but I do look up what my symptoms are online  (like on webmd) and guess my diagnosis with this information 90% of the time. 
1	I have had chronic health issues my whole life.  I have had to deal with these issues ongoing and this has given me knowledge of medical issues.
-1	I can't think of anything really. Perhaps when I had diabetes I took Metformin,  started a low carb lifestyle, a ate less. Because of the changes in my lifestyle, I cured my diabetes. I have kept my weight to within 5 pounds. I am not as strict as before, but check my weight every day at the gym. When it's higher than 143, I go stricter and it goes down, but anything unhealthy makes it go up--unfortunately. Also I eat lunch out with my gym friends every week day, an do try to eat healthy. And by the way, I am volunteering to tutor an 11 year old dyslexic boy who was illiterate 1 year and 4 months ago. He is now reading on a fifth grade level. The program is Barton and if you know a dyslexic child, see if it would be possible to get him/her into that program. I think Shriners has a program that is free.
-1	It was my near death experience with lukimia that made what to know more about heath and its benefits 
-1	I have questioned my doctor about dosage size.  He has agreed with me several times.  But my doctor encourages me rethink his suggestions.
-1	Throughout my years, i have tried to keep up with my health and makong sure i am fit. I have learned how to read blood pressure, the benefits of vitamins and even eating healthy. 
-1	when my sister-in-law was diagnosed with ovarian cancer and i went with her to all her appointments, i would search online everything the doctor told her what to expect with treatments. and then my dad was diagnosed with lung cancer i did the same for him and myself. then 3 years agoi suffered a heart attack and ever since i am always reading up on heart healthy foods nad what all i can do to prevent another heart attack
1	I keep track of all my Dad's medicines and side effects. I also track all our health conditions and try to find ways to cure them if possible.
-1	I used to work at a hospital a nursing home and a pharmacy for many years in different departments. I also worked on a rescue squad 
1	I can predict what change my doctor is going to make in my antithyroid meds just by looking at my blood work labs.
-1	when someone diabetic needs insulin or more sugar to keep going every day in my life is a challenge no matter where i am or what i am doing
-1	My mom and dad lived with us several years.Dad did dialysis at home,mom took care of him.I went with them to doctor visits,hospital,etc.I learned alot from all they went through.Dad passed away a year ago.
1	I have had no experience in my life that has demonstrated my knowledge of any health or medical issues
-1	My daughter was diagnosed with a rare former of cancer.She needed lots of home care.The medical professionals taught me to do it all
-1	I had pain in my lower an and have been diagnosed with diverticulitis so when I feel that pain again i know to watch my diet and increase liquids for hydration
1	In 2007, I was alone in my home when I felt an abnormal event in my chest. I went and laid down on my couch and had a heart attack. I called the local non-emergency number for an ambulance. The dispatcher rudely said the I have someone who thinks he's having a heart attack, which turned out to be accurate 5 minutes after the ambulance arrived.
-1	I am a physical therapist who works in a skilled nursing facility and I deal with complex patients with multiple diagnoses
1	I used to work for podiatrists in the past, so I have extensive knowledge about feet and their diseases.
-1	I have had a lot of surgeries in the past. A couple of them 3 weeks apart. I ended up in ICU because of this. I almost die over it. I have been in and out of the hospital quite a few times over different things.
-1	I have been feeling great.And right now i dont have any problems with medical issuses. I have rods in back 
-1	I am not that good at statistically answering questions like those posed, but I have experience in researching and understanding health issues. 
-1	i dont have any coment on this all ,y health isnt that bad so i dont have to understand this plus prayer works
-1	I went to medical assistant school. That helped me understand medical terminology a little better and symptoms of different diseases
-1	i do not have a lot of experience with health or medical issues because i have always been really healthy.
-1	An experience that demonstrated my knowledge in health was in health class in school. Another experience was when I was at the doctor and I had a few questions answered.
-1	My uncle was having heart issues and I was able to help him and my aunt relax and make correct decisions before and after medical help arrived. 
-1	After I had a bleeding ulcer when they explain to me what they were doing I could explain everything back to my family perfectly. 
-1	I fractured my hip in four places.  There was no healing in one of the fractures after a full year and several different types of surgery and treatments.  My orthopedist had no idea as to why this fracture wouldn't heal.  When I sought another opinion I was told that the first surgeon treated me improperly and the second surgeon was able to get everything to heal.
-1	I have a history of DVT blood clots and one time I started feeling the feeling I had had the first time clotting became a problem and though I was otherwise feeling fine I went to the ER. In the parking lot I started getting serious pain and I dragged myself to the ER where I told nursing staff what was happening and instantly gave me a clot buster and I was back home in about 2 1/2 hours.
-1	I have no experience at all with knowledge of health and or medical issuesnor do I care to at this point in time.
-1	My mother was diagnosed with an Arnold Chari Malformation 1, and after having several doctors work with this, and she under went the brain surgery, and the original doctor visited her in rehab, he sat down in the room, and asked about the journey.  Even the nurses were shocked, as this was out of character for this doctor, and yet he stopped everything with an interest to learn more, and because I know the medical terms respected me enough to really listen to the story instead of only half listening to things.
-1	Several years ago I woke up with a severe pain in my back.  I had never had anything like that before but I suspected a kidney stone and when I got to the hospital I was right.
-1	After I was told I had seizures I just go to the doctors,  and let them tell me what I need to do. I try to do as they tell me but if I feel the medicastion is not working I call back and stop it
-1	I have copd. I understand the risk of continued smoking. I know what types of climates can exacerbate symptoms. 
-1	I received an abnormal mammogram and had to have a biopsy done. I called to get a referral to a surgical oncologist 
-1	I had mammograms come back with false positives. I spoke with the nurse and doctor to get more Information.
-1	Actually going to the doctor's office and health science classes in schooling. Even though, I will admit that the majority of these questions were math related.
-1	I don't really have one so I'm just going to put w wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwewwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwe wwwwwwwwwwwwwwww.  Wwwwwwwwwwwwwwww
-1	I'm not really sure what to say. I really don't know at all. It's very limited and none. I don't know 
-1	With my daughter delivering her first child and encountered medical complications.  I was able to advise her on her medical journey to recovery.
-1	I know that the temperature of your body is about 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit.  I have had my temperature taken whenever I give blood and my body temperature goes down to 98.2 degrees many times.
-1	I know what I know because of being proactive regarding my lupus diagnosis. I can tell anyone all the types of lupus, what foods to eat and not to eat. What medications work. How to be mindful of flare ups.
-1	My own health issues and going to college with a nursing student and helping her study for exams. As well as working in a nursing home. 
-1	I have taken classes in CPR & First AID, a few nursing classes & trained as a home health aid. I have also taken classes towards cerification as an herbalist. I am quite interested in health, nutrition and natural healing options.
-1	When i went to the dr. For my test results and i had to figure out how to read the results and what they meant by things such as the ast or acl.
-1	I have no idea. This is not my field of expertise. I know high cholesterol is bad so you should eat less fat and take your prescribed meds.
-1	I can do and have performed positive and successful CPR on a heart attack patient that is still alive because of my quick action until someone got there with the defibrilator
1	I had hepatitis C but didn't know it for about 18 years. I did a lot of research into symptoms and treatments. When I was treated, I researched the various medications and side effects, as well as the likelihood that the treatment would actually work.
-1	I only have heard of and taked aabout shimgle with family and friends but when my mother first showed me the rash  on her side and along  the nerves over rib cage I immediately know to take her to and clinic.
-1	I have to say when I was undergoing the asbominal ultrasound when they statred   spouting off internal organs they were viewing and the related pain it wasn't good. The phone was ringing 2 hours later with the nws of what i felt, a bad gallbladder
-1	 I'm not really sure I understand the question why Dr. explains medical documentation to me I also have other people that can help me when I'm unsure of my medical issues
-1	I was prescribed an antibiotic and after about a week my skin started itching and then broke open and oozed puss. It started on my hand and then covered my whole body. I was in the Dr.'s office every day for just shy of two (2) weeks. Since the Dr. didn't know what I had, I started researching and asking my nurse friends. One day I walked in and informed him I had Steven Johnson's Syndrome because he had prescribed a Novocain antibiotic and I'm allergic to Novocain.
-1	well i exercise some and i know bout the benefits of exercise and how it affects the heart. also blood pressure
-1	I have no experience in my life that ever demonstrated my knowledge of medical issues. Never. Ever. 
1	I had very severe exzema all over my whole body, took antibotics and steroids constantly to try and control it.  I finally found a doctor who agreed with me that I needed allergy testing, this was done and it was found that it was caused by a food allergy to peanuts.  As soon as I eliminated them from my diet and avoid them at all times I do not have exzema problems anymore.  I have one small area on my foot and that is all now, compared to total body involvement.
-1	helping people with their medications and making sure they were taking them at the right time and the proper amounts.  if i had any questions about how the people were going about it, i would have them call their doctors office and they would give me permission to talk to their staff.  it would help straighten out any problems the person seemed to have!
1	My wife was a type 1 diabetic for years and a few years ago she got lung cancer. While she was sick I took care of all of her medication and insulin injections.
-1	I was at my mother's house on my birthday when she called for help because there was something wrong with my grandmother (who lived with my parents). My mom thought she had slipped into another sugar coma but I recognized the signs as that of a stroke. When the emt's arrived, they confirmed she was having a stroke. 
-1	My friend bump his real hard against the wall which he had a slight concussion I gave him Motrin every 6-8 hours well he went to the hospital and what I was already doing they told him to do
-1	I have extensive knowledge of health or medical issues. I have two years of health and medical issues.
-1	It is ideal to have regular check-ups on those type of illnesses and know understand your heart rate-per-minute, abnormal pains or sickness associated with either new recommended pills or mammograms.  b
-1	My mother who had breast cancer I learned somethings like blood counts,cells ..what can affect it.chemo plus meds and her pain levels
1	I read online ans have found ways to improve my health through diet and exercise. I have also researched various medications to determine what the potential risks are involved
-1	This survey is unbelievable annoying!!! I am only getting 30 cents for this and it is like taking an exam!! Are you people sadists?
1	I was stung by a wasp and started to get itchy, swelling, have trouble breathing, and my ears became hot
-1	that i follow what i need to better my health. and to try to get off medication that i am currently taking. 
-1	First off if I flunk this survey it is because I hate math and am not good at it!  I have had several medical experiences in my life. I have a friend who takes a blood pressure medicine depending upon what his BP is. If the systolic is below 100 or the heart rate is below 60 the medicine is held. If I took his BP and it was 120/85 and the heart rate was 85 I would give him his medicine, if it was 98/60 HR was 55 I would hold the medicine. 
-1	Because of my disease, friends often ask questions that I am able to answer because of what I have learned. A college engineering teacher was very interested in what I was telling him. His wife was bored.
-1	i do not have any of that.i get check out all the time.so i just have cad that is all.do well just liver your laft the best you can....
1	i have been diaignosed with cancer and have been cancer free for 5 years also had  a heart attack and had 3 stents placed so i understand a little more then avg. person also have had cancer and heart problems in my extended family
1	I do not have much experience with health or medical issues, but when I go to the doctor, I am able to answer simple questions about my lifestyle.
-1	There is really no way  I could pick an experience  in my life that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues. The knowledge I have is a result on many different experiences over a period of 30+ years.
-1	A student in my class was exhibiting some signs of low blood sugar. I recognized this from taking care of my mother who is also diabetic. The student was tested and was diagnosed as type II diabetes.
1	I was prescribed a drug that I found out on my own initiative could have renal side-effects.  When I discovered my blood test for kidney function had worsened, I was able to have the medication discontinued.
-1	after begining in the hospital so many times and have to figure out how to on my own and practing on my own
1	My mom spent the better part of 2016 in the hospital for ulcerative colitis, had a couple surgeries, stayed in rehab for months, and I was a primary caretaker and learned all about how to help her.
1	I had a hip fracture at age 40. I kind of suspected I had one after researching my symptoms.   I was able to heal my fracture much faster than expected due to a good diet, healthy lifestyle, and even by keeping active (low impact) while recovering.  I am now hoping to run a marathon by next year.
-1	I thought I had diabetes before my doctor told me by what I was told. Thirst hunger blurry eyes weight loss
-1	A man in Oklahoma contacted me He had blood poisoning.A bacterial condishion that could have resulted in death without treatment.I sent him materials to draw out the infective agents.He was injured in a bicycle accident.The instruction I gave him were followed He recoverd and called to thank me and called me doctor.He is now beginning to develope gray hair.Not to bad I would think even if I must say so. 
-1	THIS SURVEY IS REALLY STARTING TO PISS ME OFF. SERIOUSLY! WHAT TYPE OF QUESTIONS ARE THESE.TAKE THESE 100 CHARACTERS AND SHOVE THEM! WITH A CHERRY ON TOP.
1	A family member was told he had possible beginning of heart failure.  I read as much as possible as I could and as soon as I sure leg sweeling, I made sure he went to doctor who added 2 water pills to regimen.
-1	Well, years ago while in North Carolina had a girl friend who was have some breathing problems and had some chest congestion. went to cvs and bought a vicks vaporizer and the vapo stuff and bingo bango she was feeling better in no time.
1	I have Crohn's Disease and have to manage this chronic condition with medication and regular colonoscopies. I've been in remission for over 20 years. 
-1	My daughter broke her arm and I had to keep her calm and get her to the hospital  to get it set. Keeping her calm was a big thing.
1	When I became sick with a chronic illness, I had to step up to the plate and become knowledgeable about my illness and advocate for myself with my community and with doctors. 
-1	I have very little knowledge and interest in medical interest.  I was a camp counselor when I was in college and would tend to basic scratches and scrapes on a daily basis. 
1	There really isn't one.  I have helped a family member deal with an extremely serious health issue. For every issue and every medical concern there are lots of details to read through.
-1	None I can think of at the moment. I am pretty much a healthy person with hardly any health issues. I have to type something else because the survey requires it. I really do not have anything else to say on this question. I would like to move on the rest of the survey now. Thank you!
-1	discovered a problem with a physicial and was able to correct it by not taking a certain drug and now I am fine
-1	I have not had many health issues in the past. I do know that when a doctor explains something to me and I'm not totally sure about something I will ask questions.
1	My friend kept telling me she was having trouble breathing, short of breath, frequently, for no apparent reason, not just when exercising or working. I told her she needs to see a doctor. She had heart problems..
1	I have had experience when I have been diagnosed with medical conditions because I research them and ask questions.
-1	When I was told I had diabetes.It changed my whole world upside down when I found out.I have so many times where I feel so bad I just want to sleep and not get out of bed.
1	I get kidney stones sometimes. Kidney stones start in the kidneys and are passed through your urine.
-1	When I found out I had scoliosis. Also, having a cyst in my breastbone area.for the most part, continually getting sick all the time.
-1	I do not know medical terminology at all and have no interest in medical terminology, I only understand plain English without the medical jargon.
-1	My friend described to me their pain and how it radiated from their backs to chest and arm would go numb, and from my own previous experience, i told them it was a gallbladder attack and to immediately get checked. they had it removed that week. 
-1	When I was 37 I had to have emergency heart surgery. It was very unusual heart condition for my age.  I went through it twice. It could have been life threatening  but I made it through.
-1	I try really hard to eat right, exercie, meal prep, and read the labels on what I eat on a daily basis. I use a fitness tracker and Myfitness Pal.com on my phone to keep up with what I eat and my weight. It has paid off so far and the doctors tell me so when I visit.
-1	I dont have any. This survey asks questions aobut health and I have no idea about osme of the answers
-1	taking care of both my father and mother in health care aspects and everyday activities to maintain their lifestyle and taking them to all dr. appointments
1	I was able to give advice to a friend who struggles with anxiety and depression like I do. I was able to recommend a medicine that I had used, and to motivate him to call a doctor.
-1	I always look up and read about medical conditions and ways to stay healthy from food, environment and excercise
-1	i honestly can't think of a time that really demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. nothing specific comes to mind to explain 
1	I am a diabetic, and as such I am familiar with a great number of tests, a1c readings, and various risk factors related to the disease.  I also have both retinal and podiatrist issues that have forced me to learn more.
1	After breast cancer I was told that if I had radiation chances of return were about 10% but if I had both chemo and radiation Chances were about 2%---I had both
-1	family in health coverage needing medical attention with clinic or hospitalto  needs free or reduced to help low income families
1	I used to work in the medical and had to train scribes to complete medical documentation for emergency physicians 
-1	I checked myself into the hospital after having a bus accident and I was diagnosed with pneumonia, type 2 diabetes and high cholesterol.
-1	When I was sick over the summer I started doing research on the symptoms. I started looking up articles to determine what I may have.
-1	i am not a doctor and have no medical expertise to diagnose an illness. i trust my doctor to do that. 
-1	Just normal going to the doctors for check ups, reading up on conditions, paying attention to what my doctors are telling me.
1	I knew what allergic reactions look like and when a child was experiencing a reaction to a medicine, I took the child to the doctor and was proven right
-1	I once started a new medication. Within a few days of taking it, I knew something wasn't right because of how I felt. I called the doctor and told him that I was having an allergic reaction to the medication.
-1	I had my gall bladder out many years ago and I read all I could about it before I even agreed to the surgery
-1	I had epilepsy at age 10. My doctor told me that I would always be nervous & not able to handle stress. I had to stop taking Dilantin when I turned 22, I was pregnant. I stopped taking it because it causes birth defects. I don't have seizures but really bad headaches.
-1	I knew that I had something seriously wrong with my back, even after initial tests showed nothing. Later, an MRI showed that I had a slipped disc.
-1	Having ovarian cysts and having a scan and receiving the results to know whether or not a hysterectomy was necessary or other steps could be taken
-1	I studied biology & chemistry in college.  I can also read. and understand anything I read or am told.
-1	I was married to a nurse and all the information I aquired from her was enough to reeducate me in the medical field enough so I could understand a lot of the language used in the hospital.
-1	Having major back surgery to relieve lower back pain. The doctor recommended a 3 level fusion which after gaining more knowledge about lower back surgery, I could have a less serious surgery. I now think that doctor just wanted to make more money!
-1	I am a former EMT-B.   This has helped me more easily understand the diabetes diagnosis I have been given.   I already know what normal and abnormal blood sugar levels are, and what the signs of high and low blood sugar levels look like in the person experiencing a medical crisis.
-1	I don't trust the statistics. I wonder what the doctors families do when they are sick. Healthcare is way to expensive so if you get sick and can't afford health care, you could die or lose everything. 
-1	first off I don't like doing the math on a survey, and this is not what I thought this was about. I don't really think about stuff like this, that is what the doctor is for in the first place let them figure all this stuff out
1	I had a hysterectomy. The doctor wanted to start me on estrogen right away. Going through information I found my problem was my body produced to much estrogen already. I read and consulted. Decided on a different way and has worked fine.
-1	I've never really had health issues that really life threatening. I've had a colonoscopy to see what was wrong with my insides. Back in high school I was bleeding from my anal area so they did the procedure and didn't find nothing life threatening. Other then that I've only had sticthces and a few tweaked ankles and knees. 
-1	Twice I had blood in my stool. The second time I new to go to the ER right a way, not to the doctors office
-1	i really dont have anything that i know of so i dont have anything to write about i knew what a csection was and knew what was going to happen when i had one
-1	I was asked once from a friend on my experience of child birth. I did not have a natural child birth I had a c section so I recounted the story of how I was in labor for 40 hours and they labor was not progressing so I had to then have a c section. I then gave informations on the recovery of a c section in my experience.
-1	My daughter was critically ill with meningo- encephalitis 10 years ago. As a healthcare worker, I did not routinely believe everything that a doctor said, and did research on my own to help determine the cause of the condition
-1	I have had many experiences in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health issues because I am an RN. The memory that stands out the most is when my cousin told me she urinates frequently in large amounts and was constantly thirsty. I told her those were signs & symptoms of diabetes. Shortly after that she was told she was diabetic. 
-1	Feeling different feelings in my body that I know is wrong. Sometimes I know when something is wrong with me and sometimes I don't.
-1	I have good health except for the two back surgeries that I had. But at the end of the day I am doing fine and I have learned a lot about my health from my primary doctor and my survey doctors.
-1	Well I have eczema and it's very irritating. If I stress too badly I will break out. If I sweat badly I will break out. Not fun
-1	There are no circumstances that comes to mind that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	My hysterectomy showed me how LITTLE I knew about them.  Had I did more reading, maybe I would still have my uterus and I wouldn't be bald. I trusted the doctor as my only solution.  I should've suspected something when the consent form said optional surgery.
1	My friend has a daughter who had a seizure. I was able to use my own condition and knowledge of seizure procedure and risks to help them be calm, and know what to do in the future.
-1	I enjoy CPR classes because they allow me to use my basic science knowledge in a more practical environment.
-1	Blood clots entered in my lungs.I had a hernia remove.I had walking pneumonia.I hah surgery on both knees.I have asthma and a hole in my diaphragm
1	My dad was having lower back pain for about a week. He is a gym instructor, so he goes regularly, but i noticed he doesn't strecth like he should prior to beginning workouts. So i asked him if he was flexible in his hips, hamstrings, and IT bands since they can cause lower back pain if non-flexible muscle tissue is too tight. He started stretching those areas everyday and the pain eventually decreased and then went away entirely. 
-1	A friend was taking blood thinners and she had a very bad headache. I advised her again taking aspirin but to call her doctor and her doctor told her that was the best advice I could have given her. 
-1	I started to pursue nursing for awhileand have a very little but of medical knowledge but most comes from having axe with alot of the girls at the school who actually did the work and would talk about it when I was at their various houses 
-1	After I delivered my youngest child, the doctors noticed that my heart was racing. I had to get an ultrasound on my heart to make sure there wasn't anything wrong. Thankfully it wasn't. It was scary at the time.
-1	well my knowlede is to take what meds you need to take when it is perscribe to you.i think this is a very good thing
-1	I've had to explain depression to my friends frequently, and have taught many of them (even those who have depression) a lot about the condition.
-1	In November of 2007 I had a heart attack and had to have triple-bypass surgery as a result.  My doctor explained, in terms I could understand, exactly what was going to be done.
-1	Filing out my doc forms at every visit. Someone asks me a question about something that's health related and I try and answer to the best of my ability, or I'll find a way to get the answers. 
-1	sorry i do not have anything to say on the subject i do not go to the doctor often just for annuals it is very routine
-1	I went to the hospital and underwent extensive testing and treatment for respiratory failure and understood what the doctor and medical staff were telling me
-1	I was constantly experiencing pain in my jaws, headaches and pressure in my ears after chewing gum, followed by my jaws locking and clicking. I mentioned this to my dentist and I was found to suffer from temporomandibular joint (TMJ) dysfunction.
-1	I am trained in and administration, I feel that I know enough to save someone's life. Also in first aid
1	The person I'm seeing has sickle cell and isn't the 1at person I've dated with it. I was very familiar with the different issues and treatments.
-1	My experience in life includes my older father and mother who take several visits to the doctor and seceral prescriptions.  They still try to watch their diet and exercise to maintain a healthy weight.
1	I'm a hospital pharmacist with a doctoral degree. Although I'm in management, I precept students and I train Pharmacists in clinical areas such as kinetics, antimicrobial stewardship, etc. 
-1	I was diagnosed with Hep C. I learned all I could about the disease and was treated for it with interferon and ribavirin for a whole year. My viral load was reduced to undetectable and I was deemed cured. It has been over ten years now.
-1	I have spinal Bifida which means that I have had many operations and I have been told that I would not make it. I was also told that I am a controllable diabetic.
-1	always being in the hospital for mental illness made me know it more. Before i became mentally ill i didn't know anything about my diagnosis.  I wasn't even aware that i had it from a young age but wasn't aware. 
-1	Whem I got a cold, I went to the convnience  store for medicine to treat it instead of going to the doctor. 
-1	Finding out I was pregnant before taking a test is example of me being knowledgeable of my health. I was able to recognize the signs.
-1	I cant really recall any experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues
-1	I'm am aware and know a little about medical issue due to pamphlets. Also from infinitive doctors and televised programs
-1	My Oldest daughter had asthma , the peramedics kept telling me she wasn't , but with my history of asthma and little of medical knowledge , I was able to keep her stable long enough to get her to the er
-1	I was able to correctly identify the type of headaches I was having before my appointment with y doctor.
-1	I googled my Mom's symptoms an found that she had a gall bladder issue that was not boing diagnosed by her dr.
-1	I have had many health issues.  Two months ago I had a Para-esophageal hernia repair, which was successful.  I was having constant heartburn, shortness of breath, plus numerous of other issues.  Since my surgery my health is improving, but I am dealing with a lot of fatigue.  My health issues have given me the opportunity to research into my health problems more thoroughly and learn about my body.
-1	I work as a medical/surgical/trauma ICU nurse. I use the knowledge I've gained to help myself stay healthy. If I don't know about a condition, I ask my doctor, physicians I work with, or research it
-1	When I'm feeling sick with a similar symptom that l had in the past I know exactly what it is my knowledge from the doctors.
-1	I went to college for medical assistanting and certified nurses assistant. so I think that qualifies me for having more than a beginners knowledge of medical issues. I also worked with individuals that were mentally challenged
-1	Helping my dad throughout his end of life care. Having worked as a hospice social worker years previously, it really helped me when navigating the hospice care of my dad.
-1	I have not had any situations when i was not knowledgeable.  I will all was ask questions until i feel comfortable about the ussues.
1	a couple of years ago, I felt my some numbness in my fingers and tongue.  I searched online, suspecting a stroke.  I called my doctor who confirms my suspicions and I was ruched to the ER.
-1	I took it upon my self to research & find out how to deal with my allergies!! After experimenting with different drugs, I found what works for me!!
-1	When my husband was fighting diabetes and kidney disease and I had to monitor his medication and eating habits 
-1	Experience has helped me with my knowledge of health and medical issues. I try to keep myself informed but am not afraid to ask questions to get me by
-1	When I was diagnosed of abnormal pap smear and that I also had abnormal growth. I was scheduled to have a procedure to remove the growth. With the research I did, I declined the procedure and to my credit, two colposcopies later, I was cleared.
-1	There's no point in my life that I've demonstrated any knowledge of medical or even healthcare issues.
1	The time my sister feet and hands stayed really cold. I told her she may be anemic like others in the family and her doctor confirmed I was correct. 
-1	There hasn't been any times that I have had to demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I was recently diagnosed with prostate cancer. From the correspondence and doctor's explanation, I was able to determine what would be the best plan for me and my recovery.
-1	I expericed terrible health issue for years. Doctors themselves couldn't figure out. I used as much info as I could including getting infor from natural doctors and sloved my own problem. I am almost healed from my problems. Its been a year!!!! 
-1	I am able to do calculations because I have an exceptional aptitude for math, but I do not understand the medical terms and information provided.
-1	theres no experiences or have i ever expereinces in my life that would demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when I answered my friend about a health question.
-1	The only experience I have is given birth to my children and having regular health check ups. I have also had to deal with common illnesses like the flu and multiple occassions.
-1	there are none. My health has been good over the course of my life. zno blood pressure, high cholesterol 
-1	Nothing really big has happened in my life so far yet. Nothing to talk about right now. Don't have anything to say 
-1	I attend nursing classes in high school and scored a 4.0 grade took it in 9th and 10th grade so I feel that I have knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	Oh my God what kind of survey questions are these I'm having an headace oh my word I don't know the answer to these questions 
-1	I occassionally expereince low blood sugars. I know how to treat that condition with ease and not panic.
1	Whenever I have to take my grandmother's blood sugar on a daily basis. It's good to know what normal levels are for a diabetic
1	When I was pregnant for the first time and even though I was in good health i had to completely change my whole life style and eating habits to ensure the safety of baby and I. I was unaware of the risk that could arise for baby and I if I didn't get enough water, vitamins, minerals and etc.
1	I cut my finger deeply and the bleeding was in spurts at the rate of my heartbeat. I used a large rubber band to wrap tightly around my finger, above the cut, to stop the bleeding. I then went, immediately, to hospital emergency room.
-1	While lifting weights at the gym I pulled a muscle in my upper arm. While waiting on it to heal my shoulder froze up. At this point I have what is called frozen shoulder. I had to be put to sleep so the doctor can move my arm around, it was to painful to do when I was up.
-1	I learned a lot about good health from reading medical books and researching online and look at some medical shows
-1	I have high blood pressure and pcos which I have been disnogised with since last year. I do not have any experience with any medical or health issue only from what the doctor tells me.
1	I study health issues that involve me, my family, and loved ones. I stay abreast of the news and recent findings.
-1	When I was diagnosed with high cholesterol. Other than being prescribed a drug to treat high cholesterol, I had to change my diet & read food labels.
-1	There hasn't been a time in my life where my health/medical knowledge was significant enough to remember and describe.
1	I conducted research on a certain condition.  I researched treatment options and side effects.  I was effectively able to talk to my doctor about the condition and possible treatments.
-1	I can do math, I have family members that have medical issues and health problems, my sister is a doctor.
-1	I have been through and I am still going through with my health and Medical issues. And through it all I was told couldn't have kids. I have 1 and another on the way 
-1	Taking care of sick family members and also dealing with child birth and toddlers has helped me learn a bit about it
-1	when i injured my hand and i had to excersie my hand everyday and take pain medicine for the pain to go away 
-1	when my grandmother was sick and fell to he floor i was the only one in the house strong enough to pick her up and carry her.  that was years ago but ill never forget the experience 
-1	I helped my husband keep his blood sugar sliding scale accurate. We had to draw up the right amount of insulin based on his blood sugar levels.
-1	I have a hole in my heart and a leak in my valve but I never played attention to statistics or what a paper might say. I just love my life however I want to
-1	When my mother had kidney failure, it taught me about eating less processed foods and how to eat better for better health
-1	I am very knowable about asthma. However i am horrible with knowing the numbers for high blood pressure 
-1	I can only think of diets, reading labels weighing in .Seeing the doctor. Taking medicine. I knew how to take care of myself. 
-1	I have experience with the medical field. I find it very interested that so many of us can even acknowledge that we understand.
-1	When my grandmother had a stroke and I had to learn about her medications and how much to administer while she was under hospice care
-1	none at all, just with birth control and the lielyhood of me getting pregnant. other than that i haven't had anything crazy done.
1	I routinely go get an annual exam. Additionally my mother has educated me on certain health topics over the years.
-1	Whenever I go to the doctor. I guess it shows that I usually have no clue until i check with the internet to make sure. I think the internet is a good source to reveal lots of information regarding medical and health issues and it definitely provides lots of information for me to learn about them.
-1	I dont like to do math. But i learn about percentages. And calories. And about Hart raters. When you have to call the doctor if your temperature. At 104
-1	Taking and understanding my blood sugar reading.  When to take and in what amount to take my insulin.
-1	I have been to many doctors for several different reasons. The last doctor was for my knees and I received injections in my knees for the pain I am getting in my knees.
-1	I think with a parent & those who were active in child's life. Who know the importance of well-being & health. Family health being of disease control & the spreading diseases among family members. When, reading (also when in school being taught health & personal hygiene beginning in about 3rd grade latter in 7th & 8th grade) about disease in science or an article about prevention. Child Health Care in public schools, public health & the controlling & spreading what I is communicable & preventive. I also being told early in public school what is preventable & contagious (pink eye) also I am in an age group when shots were given in school to prevent polio, public concerned about smallpox, etc.. I given several things to extend life & prevent disease, including the home (impetigo infectious pusules, etc).
-1	I had the experience of finding out from my physician that I had Type 2 diabetes.  I had knowledge of the disease because I had realities with the same diagnosis 
-1	I have seizure disorder as well as my youngest son. Also my oldest son had heart issues and leg issues requiring braces.
-1	I have been a nurse for 25 years, caring for patients with medical and surgical problems, postpartum women, newborn babies , 
-1	I don't really have an experience in your life that demonstrated your knowledge of health or medical issues. Therefore there is really nothing I can put for this answer.
-1	a pap smear showed cells that could eventually be cancerous.  Based on what I had learned from a previous doctor, I asked the doctor to freeze the cells so that they would not continue to grow and spread. The doctor agreed.
-1	I'm Not always accurate on medical information provided. I didn't go to medical school, this is more of reducing health risks on health.
-1	Please help you guys talk too much and ask a lot of boring questions like change your surgery formaf
-1	I have been diagnosed as having high blood pressure, high cholesterol, and being overweight.  All these conditions lead to heart attack and stroke so I am using diet and exercise to help correct these conditions.
-1	Once I had strep throat and I knew because of my symptoms and I used Google to compare and I went to the doctor without saying anything and they diagnosed me with it 
-1	By going to doctors and dentist regularly and knowing about eating healthy and exercise.  Taking  medicine and learning more 
-1	I have high cholesterol so I had to take medication to lower it.  I became more aware of my diet and more informative of cholesterol labels.
-1	The doctor gave me a prescription  I was able to read the bottle with how medications to take when to take when refill where to get it 
-1	After finding out my little brother was born with seizures. I knew I had to learn all about his illness.
-1	 Well sometimes I have a groin problem when I lift my leg my groin will click or pop some say.  When it happens I have to do the certain stretches that my chiropractor told me about so I really don't have to tell them about the problem because I already know how to get rid of it. So this is an experience that demonstrates my knowledge of a health problem 
-1	I knew I had PCOS before I was diagnosed. I had come across many women who had similar symptoms to mine so I figured that I had the same condition. I had always known something was off with my body and hormones 
-1	I had an illness in which symptoms I was familiar with. I used my knowledge of this illness & my familiarity to diagnose myself any get rid of that illness.
-1	when i first went to the hospital for my condition and i was given information about my health and how important my condition was
-1	When my significant other experienced sudden increases and frequencies in headaches. I knew instinctively that her blood pressure was up, and a trip to her doctor confirmed this.
-1	A few years back, I had one microscopic surgery on my left shoulder, and later two surgeries on my right shoulder...both due to on the job injuries. Thanks in big part to the doctor/surgeon involved I gained great knowledge of my condition and why.
1	I don't profess to have extensive medical knowledge. I think I simply have the aptitude and an ability to reason that helps me in understanding medical issues that are explained to me or that I have researched. 
-1	When I had my seizure that demonstrated me a lot about health and so did school .. I learned a lot about health and what to do and not to do .
-1	I found out 6 years ago that I was going into renal failure and by the end of  the year I would be on dialysis.
-1	I  have Copd,peripheral nerve damage, siatic nerve damage, high blood pressure, high cholesterol. I  have been seeing a doctor regularly for over 6 years,  about 3 to 4 times a year. 
-1	I have no idea about certain ones but I tired. I really would love up find out how it works though. Thank you for this survey 
-1	When my mom was battling cancer I had to ask questions and administr meds to her looking up as much info as I could
-1	With type 2 diabetes. Testing blood sugar and taking insulin. I have to take metformin also. I have to make sure I take it everyday. 
1	I did extensive research regarding a diagnosis of an extremely rare form of cancer and determined the best course of action among various medical opinions.  As result, she is completely healthy ten years later.
-1	I do not have extensive medical knowledge. I read books.i don't go to the doctor much. I do not have any examples
-1	I like to read so any tutoring I came do I will do so in my spare time I always like to stay prepared for the most part 
-1	Knowing is important to me my health is extremely important I don't take it for granted at all my life and future depend solely on how I take my health 
-1	I can't think of any at this tiny because my last checkup I was healthy my doctor w me. So I don't have any medical issues that I am aware.
-1	I dont know anything about doctor things. i just try to live as long as possible and make the right decisions. 
1	When I found out about my thyroid problem (hypothyroidism), I did a little reading and found out that a chemical imbalance is what was the cause. And that the thyroid gland acts somewhat like an alternator on a car. It secrets hormones to various parts of the body to maintain a stable metabolism. 
-1	Everyone in my family suffers from depression.  So do I.  I knew something other than medicine could be done for it because medicine did not work.  Long story short, Dr stopped at maybe a thyroid disease.  I kept researching.  The real problem autoimmune disease.  We all lived with a large exposure of DDT.  It depleted our minerals and left us full of heavy metals.  I t caused us to display  many different behavior disorders.  Now our whole family can heal.
-1	My grandmother saw an ENT and was diagnosed with a few things. I read the doctors report and broke the report down to my grandmother in terms she could understand. 
-1	When I woke up from a nap and had to have help to sit up because I kept falling over and couldn't stand on my own 
-1	I went to school to be a Massage therapist, so I still remember some muscles. When I was diagnosed with costochrondritis, I knew to stretch,exercise, and to do less lifting. I still also read medical books.
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues depends highly to an explanation from the doctor or what I can research on the internet.
-1	I was a certified nursing assistant for almost fifteen years. I also so have five children two of which have medical issues. I have also been responsible for the care of my parents who also have a great deal of medical issues.
-1	The is that I didn't no that I had health and medical issues until I was about 47 years old but my family new that I had health problems didn't acknowledge to me that I was different I didn't understand what was going on in my life and I really wanted no why am I not progressing and lead to believe that was normal and people use to look at me he really  don't no that he had issues until one day I overwhelmed and caused take anymore and this nurse no that I couldn't see myself somewhat put me on the right path that make me see myself I wasn't not social as I thought I was how mentally challenge I was
-1	when my son hadd a lumpin his neck i understood what the possibilties could be and knew the signs and did thorough research before hand
-1	i have not had a experience in my life to where i can answer this question any kind of way.this is something major in life
1	One time, my close friend was having an anxiety attack, and I was able to get her what she needed. Everyone else thought it was better to crowd around her, because they were unaware of what was going on, I was able to get the crowd away, and get her the proper help.
-1	I don't have my medical issues . I haven't really been in a situation where I needed to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues .
-1	There is no or have not been any experience in my life  that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issue 
-1	I dont have much experience of health or medical issues. I just research different symptoms online or go to the doctor.
-1	Health and medical can be life threatin if you don't have the calculationsame that is needed to come up with the conclusions to the problem.
-1	Temperature of 100.4 with child and coughing, took to er, stay all day, was admitted came out with instructions that had to be followed with no errors 
-1	WHen I had a hemorrhoidectomy, I didn't understand how they occurred until I spoke with the doctor.  Know I have the information needed to help prevent it from occurring again.
1	An old childhood friend gashed her leg open to where you could see the bone and muscle and I had to cut off the blood flow to that area and clean the wound 
1	I was able to figure out that cutting out sugary foods and foods with extra processed ingredients, as well as using a cleanser would help me lose weight and I was right. I did lose a lot of weight. 
1	We as women know that if you ever had a yeast infection you will automatically know  you have one when you have the symptoms.   So instead of wasting the time, gas to to go see the doctor and wasting the doctor's time;  we can go to a regular grocery or drug store to purchase a kit for yeast infections and treat it ourselves.
-1	I've actually increased the knowledge of my health within the past 6/7 years because I was diagnosed with an auto immune disease. So therefore I try to be more knowledgeable of my health.
-1	I have some experience, but I'm at that age where I'm taking control of my health for myself instead of my parents coercing me to go to the doctor. 
-1	a experince in my life is that i once was really sick and i went to the doctor they did a cat scan and found out that i had appendicitis and its was gain green.
-1	It is difficult to understand about my knowledge of health and medical issues and and I did what I can answer and answer in the best of my abilities and so far I did so good
-1	i really dont have that kind of experience with that lind if scenario you just have to live the best way you know how and hope for the best and hope your best is good enough 
-1	There is no experience I can remember in my life.Although I had heavy bleeding, which led you outpatient surgery because of fibroids.
-1	I had cold hands and feet. I was told to take iron pills, so I took them. My doctor later said my iron was at a normal level. 
-1	I never really had an experience yet like that . only for school like a test or an exam. I couldn't really say if i would have anything. Maybe when my doctor told me i was almost near over weight when i was a teenager. I told them what  i have do to so  would be at the level for that.
-1	When i got pregnant with my daughter and my water broke i knew it was time for me to get to the doctor because i knew the time was near for me to start going into labor 
1	The birth of my child. I knew certain things were out of my control so I focused on what was such was my reaction in turn this lead to a pain med free delivery with no unnecessary interventions.
-1	i have not had any experience as such so I may not be able to tell that story but one day J do hope to have a memory of that
-1	I have three children and I've made a few trips to the doctor and emergency room a few times over the years
-1	I'm not sure how to answer this question.  I go to the doctor and believe what he says.  I look up thongs that I don't understand inn the Internet.
1	I watch a lot of greys anatomy which sounds dumb but has come in handy several times in my life when hearing symptoms and encouragement to others to seek treatment 
-1	that your health is nothing to play with if you have health problems its best to get to the doctors before things get worse and before anymore problems start
-1	i just recently had a mammogram an it was normal and i was happy with the report. i was very knowledgeable about the reults
-1	When I was little my cousin fed me fruit juices a lot and one day I had to go to dentist and get all my teeth fixed
1	When i was diagnosed with endometriosis I did a lot of research on the best ways to treat and the types of surgeries and medicines and the risk of recurrence
-1	I was a clinical specialist in the Army. I had worked at numerous Military hospital in my career.  I have taken care of many injured soldiers. 
1	I had to explain some medical terminology and procedures to my sister when she was in the ER. That helped her calm down. 
-1	When I graduated and started to go to school in the nursing field That's when I started to gain knowledge
-1	When I first took a certain vaccine, I got sick every three months so the second month that I went in for the same thing, I was able to save myself and the physicians a lot of time by telling them exactly what my symptoms were
-1	HAVING GONE THROUGH MEDICAL SCHOOL IN NURSING AND WORKING WITH PATIENTS OF VARIOUS MEDICAL HISTORY AND BEEN MYSELF A PATIENT RIGHT NOW AND FOR SOME TIME HAVE INDEED EQUIPED ME WITH THE KNOWLEDGE  ON MOST MEDICAL ISSUES.
-1	I had an issue where I almost had lung Cancer but my doctors gave me Medicare and help me out so much iam grateful for the situation I go there
-1	I really dont have any health issue im pretty healthy. I havent had any doctor come to me with any health issues
1	I can't recall any experience in my life where I demonstrated knowledge of health or medical issues. I rarely get sick or have serious health issues.
1	I fractured my humorous in the seventh grade and the doctors were telling me that I would have to wear a sling for a week that come back for a reevaluation. 
-1	I really dont have that much knowledge of medical issues other than the medical issues that i currently have and that my husband and children have other than that i dont have knowledge of enything else. If it is something that i am dealing with then i choose to educate myself. 
-1	I do not have many health issues so I am okay with the condition I am in however I am sometimes worried of what could become a problem 
1	When I was have problems with passing out.  I kept getting told it was heart related.  I didn't believe it to be true gut feeling.  It was finally figured out that it was chronic anemia and I needed IV iron therapy for the remainder of my life.  My persistence found the true diagnosis 
-1	I really don't have experienced that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issue. So I don't know really how the answer that
-1	I don't I'm going to show that people don't ask to do these things that I'm doing . People want to alway show that I'm broke and have no morsel in life or that I don'work for that poem or they get so much tna that they don't get in trouble for the I don't now how to answers my own urges to help cope with life some will show me that I don't know how to stay in it and win like everyone people are like savages and ether will eat your head off it you let them . I'm gong to give you this I haven't don't e anything to better or even challenge myself for to be s better person other for some else to not see that in a person show how this my effect some else life and not mine I get everybody is conceal ing ther in tenthescto to hear, to orthers and not them self or them selfies the onethey help or I'm just giving up to m
-1	The only experience would be personal experience, readings online, and sad to say but television. Some of the information on how to calculate did come from school but some calculations I did not know because I was never taught how.
-1	there really hasn't been an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues per se
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health issues when I talked to my mother about my pcos and all the symptoms that come along with it.
-1	I'm not that good with math and the percentage is hard. Never did a health or medical class before.zyx
-1	So I have had 3 pregnancies. With my first child my water broke on its on. With my second and third the doctor broke it. To this day I tell any woman don't let them break their water because the pain is much worse.
-1	High blood pressure and,Diabetes is my main health concerns and,a cure for all these diseases. I have learned how to deal and control this.
-1	I needed to have an ailment with my foot taken care of. I asked all the questions that I thought would help in my situation from multiple doctors before deciding on getting procedure done.
-1	Knowing that I couldn't take a certain medicine because I had an adverse effect from another medicine in the same family....
1	15 years ago I was told that I had borderline high cholesterol and was told to take Lipitor. I did research on Lipitor and on statins in general and found that I would have better outcomes if I eat healthier and exercised more.  Later tests have confirmed my approach was correct. I'm 65 now.
1	I know I have seasonal allergies and take over the counter medication to lessen symptoms. I avoid food and drink that could have adverse interactions with medication. 
-1	an experience that happened in my life that demonstreted my knowledge of health or medical issues is when my cousin passed out at my house
-1	I know that I hated the math questions. I have no clue as to why they ARE THERE. These questions have no baring on what I know about my health and some do not partain to me
-1	I only have asthma I have trouble breathing after rubbing or exercising for long periods of time and some times in small areas it's also hard to breathe 
-1	Fortunately for me but perhaps unfortunate for the purposes of this question I have no medical experience which would require deep understanding which makes demonstrations impossible.
-1	I once had an allergic reaction to naproxen when I wasn't allergic due to a panic attack. My body created an issue that wasn't really there
-1	Knowledge of health knowing if you feel bad you should consider going to the hospital but also try to do the best you can with trying to make yourself feel better if it not that serious but also always go to the doctor 
-1	My dad died from septic shock last year. He had flu symptoms, so he went to the urgent care down the street from my home. They told him he had a normal virus that needed to pass. 4 days later, he died and was diagnosed with septic shock.
-1	Good morning from the Sims 4 city living room and didn't want my sister in my eyes are costly to go trick to be in the morning from
-1	I've had so many health issues in my life since my early twenties, that I feel very knowledgeable about so many areas of medical issues.
-1	On time my mother had wondered out into the cold. I didn't know how long she had been out, but I thought it might be a medical emergency. As it turned out, she stayed in the hospital for about a week.
-1	When I was in Highschool I took anatomy and sports medicine and when I was working at my job at skyzone and a little kid hurt themselves I knew exactly how to help
-1	I think I took a human biology course and lab at a community college and when I was able to take some medical quizzes for a social website I was able to do quite  well on them. 
-1	I really don't have anything but my life great and I'm loving life .and the people n my life .I think I'm healthy 
-1	Just my every day living. Eating right exercising doing yoga. I know that this is the way to stay healthy
-1	I had an amputation that I had to take care of daily.I followed the directions that the hospital gave me.When I went back for a follow up the nurse said I did a good job following the directions for daily care.
-1	I had my gallbladder out about two years ago. I had to go through various test things including a HIDA scan. Through this experience I gained more knowledge on medical terminology and what it means to be a healthy
-1	I have high blood pressure. I have managed to keep it in check but when I go in and get my blood pressure checked I usually have a conversation with the one taking the reading and what I can do in my nutrition to improve it. 
-1	They have been times when I have shared my knowledge of having high blood pressure and hypothyroidism with others who are experiencing the same thing. 
-1	When my brother was born he swallowed fluids and had trouble breathing on his own. When everyone arrived at the hospital I was able to tell the family members what happened and explain to them the situation about my brother and why he had to be kept in an incubator.
-1	I catch the flu a lot so I know what medicines to take and what food to eat. I also know how much rest is needed and when to see a doctor when it is not better. Usually if not better in a week I will see a doctor.
-1	I broke out in a rash and suspected it was shingles. After checking online I made a doctor's appointment and upon my visit to my doctor it was confirmed. 
-1	I dont havr medical knowledge. I rely on my doctor to help me understand information. Medicine is also math based which I don't understand.
1	In room care of my mother before she died. She had several health issues and had to take many drugs to control those issues
-1	One-day my doctor recommend I stop taking st.john's wort because it was affecting me and I already knew that because I had read about it online. 
-1	I've had some medical issues. I once dislocated my knee cap. I have eczema. Had preeclampsia during my pregnancy. And had had chronic gastritis during my trip to Taiwan. 
1	I have had to help my mother with post surgery recovery twice. Once with gastric bypass and another time with a hysterectomy.  
-1	When i got burned i had 2nd and 3rd degree superficial burns from my kneecaps to my feet. 10% of my skin was burned.
-1	I notice in my younger year that if I hang around trees I have allergies. I begin to keep medicine for allergies around me to help fight it's affects.
-1	I cant think of any at the moment. I know that for my carpal tunnel i need to wear the correct hand brace
-1	The first place and time again that you can see the picture of the year of my friends house for the first time I was going.
-1	When I went to the doctor and told them the problem I was having and what it was. They said it wasn't, but when the test was run, it showed what I had already said. They didn't believe me at first because of my symptoms.
-1	Having high blood sugar and not taking care of it and not talking too My doctor and not taking my meds it very inporant too me it can be very I'll and it may be death.
-1	When my hands were aching nu.b going to sleep in had carputunnel in both my hands. Had surgery on the right hand didn't do any good need surgery on the left hand, but not my same surgeon
1	I have a child and helped to take care of my sisters children so I make it my business to know what I'm reading and being told. Whenever a family member gets sick I look up everything on what I need to know about it.
-1	When I was pregnant I knew I was told the doctor I was and when I too a urine test it was positive and so was my infrasound .  
-1	When I was diagnosed with Epilepsy and learning about the symptoms, what type I had, and how to try to cease them with my medication.
1	I had to let my surgeon know, before I had a hysterectomy,  how much I wanted him to remove and which methods I preferred to use to avoid any form of blood tra n sfusions
-1	My son sometimes gets sick amd I know to monitor his fevers and make sure he has fluids in his system when he doesn't want to eat and make sure the fever is going down and not up 
1	My arm started itching me out of no where. Two days later two bumps stares forming. Puss was inside...I went to pharmacy and got a topical cream to reduce the itching since it looked like a spider bite. Before I used anything I went to a clinic to make sure that it was nothing serious and the physician said the same thing. 
-1	I was having back pain. I was told it was just the muscles in my back. I did the exercises I was suppose too. Told the doctor that it was not the muscle because muscles don't popover on movement.
1	I really don't have an experience to talk about here. This question really doesn't pertain to me. So this is not a relevant question for me.
-1	My knowledge of health or medical issues is from the TV and family members. Hearing the news about people dying from health reasons has given me information to avoid it from happening to me.
-1	I think these particular questions are for medical professionals not patients who does not take these vitals.
1	A few years ago I had to perform cpr on my daughter after she swallowed a toy and choked. Although I could not retrieve the toy from her throat, I was able to keep her breathing long enough for emergency responders to arrive and aid my daughter. 
-1	Can't really say I have an understanding of health or medical issues. Can say I have been blessed with good health and so have really not needed to. When choosing my life's profession did not choose a medical profession. Can't stand the sight of blood.
-1	I was told by Dr. i was exposed to TB .this was very upsetting not knowing how i could have been exposed. never the less i was happy to know it was founded.
-1	I feel like it's been good to know healthcare but I am not God I do feel that I am bless to help the sick and help teach 
-1	I had an MRI  that's had alot of big words I never heard of so I went  online looked up all the words and had a sense of what's going on with me
1	I was having a lot of acid come back up my throat and I realized that it is probably acid reflux. I most likely am right.
-1	"I had been breastfeeding my son for about 2 months for various reasons. My visit to my obgyn suggested that I get on birth control immediately. It was ""breast feeding"" friendly. However doing research on the pill I made the decision not to go on that particular birth control."
-1	I go to the doctors on a regular basis and ask plenty of questions. As I said before, my sister is a doctor and i rely on her expertise whenever I have questions or concerns.
-1	I have led a healthy life so I do not have any specific health or medical issues where I needed to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when my father was diagnosed with cancer.  We realized there was nothing we could do for him.  We had to depend on the doctors and hope for the best.
1	A few years ago,one of my friends get an arm caught in some machine on his job and thought because the skin had turned deep red,that it would be broken but I told him that most likely it was just a deep burn from friction. And I was right. It wasn't broken and they treated him for a burn .
-1	 I have been at work when a client collapsed & CPR had to be administered to save his life. I did the compressions on this man while another person did the breathes
-1	an example of my experience in medicine happened from real life experience and classes i took in school
-1	I have read and researched medical issues most of my life. I keep up with the latest health news. Everytime I am given a new prescription I research it to find out the side effects.
-1	I know that I have asthma and my kids have allergies and eczema. I have experience with all of those.
-1	I had a small red patch on my forehead.  After doing some research I felt it might be basal cell but didn't quite has all the characteriests of it.  When I went for my yearly skin exam I talked to my doctor about it.  She too felt it didn't have the characterists of true basal cell and she said to apply a medication for a month and see it it went away (maybe just a patch of rough dry skin).  I told her to just take a sample and send it out rather than waiting a month to see if it went away.  Surprise it came back very early basal cell.  She was really surprised but it was good that it was caught early.  I had it removed and all is good.  So the doctor / patient team works well for me.
1	I have been a user of natural remedies and supplements all my adult life and write books on them for others.
-1	to be honest it isnt that great i thought i knew some but majority of times i didnt and i just went with my best quess. therefore, i think i need to know more about the medical issues. 
-1	I have had many medical issues for the last 35 years of my life. I've had at least 6 surgeries and 2 chronic illness and a heart attack, open heart surgery and more. I feel I have experienced a broad scope of treatment which gives me a fair knowledge of what's going on medically.
-1	I don't know. 2 years ago, I had a blood test about my weight, and back in February of this year I had a flu shot.
-1	Came down with shin cancer conditions a few years ago and had to have surgery to remove the spots. Have had no problems recently.
1	I was told that I had a high risk of blockage in my arteries due to my high cholesterol level. I was given a high percentage number for the blockage. I never reduced my cholesterol level and had a heart attack, as a result.
-1	My knowledge of health issues come from college studies, research and constantly talking to my healthcare provider
-1	My urine was very dark so I knew I was in renal failure. The Brown colorization allowed me to self diagnose from home from the material I was given at the hospital and allowed me to make the life saving call to the nephrologist to be admitted and placed on dialysis 
-1	An event in my life was when my sister was sick and I was able to correctly describe the condition I felt she was in and the sickness she had before she went to the doctor. 
1	I have been responsible for going to the doctor by myself and asking questions to gain knowledge of my health in the past three years. I also study things on my own because I am an aspiring professional athlete.
-1	Right now, there is nothing that comes to mind.  Most exams have been routine and if there was something different, it has been pretty easy to understand.
-1	I haven't had advance nursing classes but I think I can follow along with my doctor and I will ask if need be. As far as my knowledge I took a medical terminology class and physical anatomy class 1&2. I have no problem looking for information if I need to
-1	I worked in the medical field many years ago. Things may not be quite accurate. Medical technology is more advance.
1	I have an 8 year old who was has had many medical issues since birth. He was in the NICU for almost 4 months after birth. During his stay in hospital, he underwent tons of medical procedures and surgeries. As a responsible parent, I had to educate myself about the issues, terms, diagnoses, medications in order to understand and communicate with his doctors and carers. In addition, I needed as much knowledge as possible to take care of him at home. Thankfully, he is now doing well - fewer doctor visits and therapies and am even thinking of going back to work - if I can get a job :-)
1	When I went to get a mass in my breast checked I demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues while talking to the doctor about my breast
-1	I started having a terrible pain in my knee.  Went to the Dr. right away and was diagnosed with osteoarthritis.
-1	About a year ago i haf an issue with my fibroid tumor and i need to have a hysterectomy which was performed.
-1	I demonstratede my knowledge of health and wellness when I earned my Associates Degree in Gerentolog In 1996. I graduated from Oakland Community College.  
-1	I haven't really experienced health issues until I had my son who was born stillborn they could not really explained whats happened  to my son which was trust rating because I carried him full the
-1	So far I've no issues with my health, so I can't describe something that I never had, there's nothing to discuss I have no issues do far in my lifetjme.
-1	I know that the doctor will tell you what's wrong with you and lifestyle habits to get in to to change for the better. or other different things you could do to better your changes to living healthy
-1	I go to the doctor and fill out my application on my own. I understand when my doctor gives me diagnosis.
1	i had a cold. i knew i didn't need extra antibiotics and over the counter drugs. i treated it with natural remedies. and i was fine.
-1	When I stop getting my menstrual cycle at an early age I knew something was the cause of it even though they told I was fine
-1	had a doctor  mis read me  told me my sever pain in my  side  was  just in my  head   left  him believing him till i found  the pain didn't leave me only got worst so  i  went for   a second  opinion  glad i  did  found out  i  had  stage three colon cancer 
-1	When I was prescribed baby aspirin. This is shown to help from getting a heart attack tremendously. It is also used for blood thinner. This is very helpful information to know. It would avoid a life threatening situation.
-1	When I went to the hospital for the birth of my first child. I had induction then a ceserian section. I was fully prepared. I had read so much about child birth including self delivery.
-1	I can generally understand what's being said because most times I make the doctors explain it to me in lamest terms. But once the doctor came in using a long worded medical term, that just do happened I recently read an article about. So he began to explain it to me I cut him off and started asking resolution questions showing him that I fully understood what he just told me.
-1	when someone at work was having a panic attack I knew the things that were best for the patient to help them slow their heart rate and get them to slow their breathing
-1	Well I was diagnosed with diabetes in 1999 and I know I had to change my eating habits and exercise more so I have been trying but sometimes I mess up and I know that is not good 
-1	Was told i had a brain tumor, when more test were done it showed i did not have a brain tumor but was expose to medication i didn't need.
-1	In 2014, I had a medical crisis that required to me to learn about the foods that negatively affected my body. 
-1	I had had to provide support for elder family member and assist with treatment and care decisions, including DNR, long term care and home care choices. 
1	I have suffered from miagrane headaches since my early teens. I have had experience taking various medications and assessing their side effects. I have reacted symptoms and triggers.
-1	I've experienced my family going through health issues. By them sharing the causes and effects I have learned a lot. Also social media shares a plethora of medical knowledge. 
-1	I have really bad allergies and I wanted to know all the available treatments for my allergies. I did extensive research on the internet and other sufferers in order to understand it better 
-1	The questions that are contained in this survey requiring extensive responsive are repetitive and unnecessary.
-1	I have no clue terms of medical issues but if you describe them I might realize what they can do to you
-1	I have no idea how to calculate percentages on these questions.I usually read WebMD or Google symptoms until I can talk to a nurse or doctor
-1	i have very little experience but i am currently a biology major at the college i attend, helps me to pick up some information from books and assignments other than what mt physician explains to me 
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with high blood pressure, diabetes, and heart problems. I became her caregiver. 
-1	When my father was told he heas a diebetic so then I realized that I have a positive chance of being one to.
-1	ive had a hard time breathing in one point of my life it got so bad i couldnt barley eat for a month or take a shower
-1	Well I really don't understand what you are trying to ask me . But I really don't think I had an experience in my life that actually happened. I just have so much knowledge about health 
-1	BEING DIAGNOSED WITH A DISEASE AND GIVEN A PERSCRIPTION THAT HAD A  $150 CO PAY. I KNEW THERE HAD TO BE SOMETHING ELSE I COULD TAKE SO I WENT ON THE INTERNET AND FOUND SOMETHING I COULD TAKE AND IT HAD A  $10 CO PAY. BEEN ON IT NOW FOR SEVERAL YEARS AND DOCTOR APPROVED IT.
-1	Life itself. U gotta learn how to ask  when u dont know. I am too old to not understand the majority of what it said to me
-1	I had stomach pain back pain diahheera chills sweating and fatigue. I realized at that point I had food poisoning I was sick for 4 days 
-1	I am not a doctor but I use common sense and I read to get information in any condition I may have. I also ask other opinions as well as a doctors.
-1	Last year I took my mom to get some mammogram and it was positive. After further testing she was told it was false.
-1	When my father needed to have his rotator cuff replaced. That put me in the center of his care. I was able to communicate with the physicians and nurses in regards to his care.
-1	i once witness an accident where the victim was passing out and i had to go in to administer CPR to resuscitate him before other first aid could be administer
-1	Knowing that I have diabetes and I have been taking certain medicines because without it my ankles will swole up, and when I go to the pharmacy to pick up my meds and one of them is missing, I immediately call my doctor and ask why the medicine is missing, after they look at my chart they will see that they overlooked it and then they will send e a prescription to the pharmacy. 
-1	I myself doesn't have any medical issues but my family does. My grandmother was diagnosed with breast cancer three years ago.
-1	Once again being a nursing student helps a lot with being able to understand all the diseases in the body
-1	Feeling dizzy, light headed & fainting. My blood level was low due to excessive bleeding during my menstrual cycle. Ultimately I had fibriods, surgery to have them removed
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrate my understand of health and medical issues pertains to my annual analysis of my lab works and comparing them to the previous year
-1	Having a Stroke and schizophrenia,  has changed my knowledge and outlook healthwise.  I have to have many regular doctor's appointments,  as well as a number different medications. 
-1	Doctor said I needed to loose 10 pounds then I would not have to take all the blood pressure medicine I use.
-1	ACTUALLY I DO NOT HAVE  MAJOR MEDICAL KNOWLEDGE SINCE I AM NOT ATTACHED OR ASSIGN UNTO THE TRUE MEDICAL FIELD.
-1	My mother has breast cancer and I remember reading up on the statistics from a project in health class my senior year. It really helped when my mom was feeling overwhelmed with information and I could explain everything to her and her options in a simpler way. 
-1	I was having issues with my stomach and pain after I ate, I had a feeling that it was a gallbladder. I spoke to my that Dr I had a the time and he did not believe me. So I had a second opinion. 
-1	Well, I just find out I have Hpv couple years back, which my cell were abnormal. So I went to see my doctor about it and she suggest me to get surgery done.  Than couple years later than my test result come back negative from the Hpv and Cancer.
1	I recently went to the doctor for a dermatology diagnosis about my flacks.  The doctor believes that it is psoriasis.  I have a family history of skin issues and have inflammation problems in the past so knowing that allowed me to cater my diet and lifestyle to manage this condition.
-1	I'm not sure of an experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. 
-1	When taking the blood pressure and respirations of a co-worker by following the instructions of a first responder. 
-1	I was working with a student who seemed very irrational and frustrated at the time. Very short tempered as well. Recently was aware they were diagnosed with diabetes. Knowing that low blood sugar can significantly impact mood and behavior, offered a snack to the student. Took for a short walk for water. The student was able to calm down and begin acting like her self. 
-1	Mother was diagnosed with colon cancer. Father diagnosed with lung cancer. Both required chemo therapy 
-1	I have no knowledge of health or medical issues. I just don't understand all the complicated medial terminology. Also, I am just dumb.
-1	I have had few serious medical issues outside of the common cold and eczema. I have done research on other family members who may have experienced more serious conditions to better understand their condition.
-1	I see my physician twice a year so, currently, I have no known health issues at the moment. I am in good shape. 
-1	My mom was put in the hospital. Because I understood the dr's diagnosis, I was able to ensure that she got the right treatment.
1	I worked in regulatory compliance for pharmaceutical companies and was responsible for reviewing medical literature and drug promotional materials.
-1	it helped me a lot but i did not like this quiz because i dont think it is fair to judge based off my answers
-1	I got diagnosed with chrons disease i knew automically that my life would change.So i made sure i changed my diet just like my doctor said 
-1	My mom developed cancer in 2009. She had a severe struggle at first but she got through it and now she is a 5 year survivor 
1	I have very limited knowledge of health issues aside from having babies and children I've never had any major health issues
-1	I haven't had any medical issues but have had many clients with tons of medical issues from me to go to diabetes to myostis. I've seen it all
-1	I honesty don't know any instance that would demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issue. I just try and eat more vegetables,work out, and stop making excuses. So I can live a full life.
-1	Any Time I go to the doctor I very rarely if ever have trouble understanding or answering questions.
-1	in an oportunity, my children take him ball and brook his skin. i was very anxious but i goals to look my phone and call to hospital and i drive with my children. he were very sad 
1	Dont recall about myself but of a friend or roomate who had aa seizure and i knew being a cregiver what to do mostly and he ended up being okay.
1	I don't think I have a particular experience in my life that really demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues super strongly.
-1	When the doctor explained why a cholecystectomy was needed. The type of surgery and how it would be performed as well home care afterwards.
-1	I actually at this moment can't think of a moment that my life demonstrated knowledge of health issues
-1	I can't demonstrate an experience from the past that would be an example of how my knowledge of health or medical issues
-1	My doctor makes sure that I recap information given to me back to her and she helps confirm whether the information was properly received or not
-1	Being pregnant, having an unhealthy diet, and changing my exercising habits caused me to learn about certain conspiracies behind the medical field that I decided to place faith in that. 
1	When a youngster started excessively salivating and complaining about throat closing up, I knew this individual was having anaphylaxis ( bad reaction to food or an allergen). 
-1	At one time I was told that l had high cholesterol I was frighten at first until I was put on some meds for the problem. 
-1	I'm a hydrocondriac so I do a lot of research online because I'm constantly worrying about mine. It really sucks 
-1	I really didn't have experience with my health I had a Leep done once I really don't remember it I was young
-1	I get my regular checkups as well as my yearly mammogram. Make sure that my husband has his regular and yearly checkups as well 
-1	Once my grand mother had an open sore onbher foot and it began swelling. I told her tgatvwas a sign of diabetes. She was tested for diabetes and had come to find out that she was a type II diabetic
-1	I was playing basketball and have had history of tendinitis and during one play I heard a pop and fell and worried that I injured my patella tendon I went to ER. Later had MRI and confirmed I ruptured my patella tendon
-1	I had a problem with my toes rubbing against my shoes.  When the doctor examined it she described it as hammer toe.  She then sent me to the podiatrist who described the condition to me and how he proposed to correct the problem with a surgical procedure.
-1	I had decided the Mirena was the way to go for birth control after my daughter was born. Soon after I had severe hair loss. Sure enough, when reading the fine print of the side effects associated with Mirena I see alopecia at the bottom. I requested it be removed the following week and my hair is slowly coming back.
-1	My parents both have had very serious medical issues. I father has had a triple-double bypass. My mom had a heart attack. They both smoked cigarettes. 
-1	I do not have any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issue sthat come to mind. I listen to my doctor a lot.
-1	I haven't personally had an experience that required me to demonstrate my knowledge. I have completed lab exercises and calculated dosages of medication but never had any real issues.
-1	I know that everything is good, and when i need to go into the doctor then i will besides the fact that i get sick i rather take care of everything myself at home
-1	Earlier this year, I was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. However, during the past four years I struggled with mental health issues and did research regarding my symptoms.  By doing this, I gained insight on my condition.
-1	I recently experienced vertigo.  I was so puzzled because I knew something was wrong so I started by eliminating all the possible things that would not be the cause and tried to remember from health knowledge what would be the  proper diagnosis.  I succeed in getting the diagnosis correct.
-1	its all good and great and helps others with the needs they have and wants to be better and healthful and good
-1	I cant remember a specific time.  this question doesnt merit the reward given for it.  so i wont dignify this question with the effort it needs.
-1	Things that demonstrate my knowledge are , television, reading, asking questions, curious,and more...those are helping to take care of my health,
-1	Exercise is essential to promote good bone health  before and after hip replacement surgery to strengthen the bones
-1	I don't have a lot of knowledge in health. All I know is when you feel weird you go to the doctor or a least look up something on Google. Since I am not a fan of the doctor I just try to figure out what is serious enough for that.
1	When my son was a baby, he ran a high fever. I knew he needed attention when he was listless and his eyes had a glassy look to them
-1	i have high blood pressure and the hospital took me off of 1 of them because i told them something didn;t feel right and of course it was making my blood pressure elevate more
-1	I was bitten by a spider and had to change the gauge on my leg so with the proper amount of liquid drops they gave me I can change it easily
-1	I've been going to school for exercise science so some information is still relevant to me and I cam understand it
-1	I am very familiar with taking my own blood pressure.  I know that there are two reading systolic and diastolic.
-1	as a teenager i knew i had heat exhaustion when i temporarily blacked out on the beach. near the end of a pregnancy  i knew something was wrong when i began bleeding heavily. when i woke up once covered with hives i knew i had some kind of issue.
1	i do not have any specific experience to relate but i do understand when i am told of any health issues that i might have what it means and how to treat it with proper diet and exercise and approriate medication when necessary
-1	I had cancer when I was 2 years old. I had leukemia. I believe now it effects the reason that I am anemic and have such trouble with my blood count.
-1	I had little knowledge about health but i asked alot of questions until i understand what the doctor or nurse is saying to me 
-1	i dont unstand it but i migth in a yesr go bye it take me along time to see the proble i slow to under stand the prolbe  is
-1	my father  had  colon  cancer and  my mother had  high sugar  so i  know  allittle about that suff  i  have  aheart murmer and  i  havehigh  colestrol
-1	I don't have no health issue except herniated disc,bone spur, and arthritis in my neck. So I guess I do have health issues.
-1	I been a paramedic for the New York Fire  department for 28 years, also been  instructor for 15 years
-1	I amck not sure I have one but my husband kept having pains but he said it wasn't his heart. He would go lay down and he said that stopped the pain. This went on for about 2 months and then he was having one and I told him to go to ER and he said no. He was driving a truck at the time and he was due to leave later night when the pain came back. he wanted me to take him ccktco the truI will take you to the ER.ccc
-1	Being able to read my prescription materials and take medicine properly as well as reading my forms better than my doctor and noticing mistakes.
-1	I know almost nothing about medical issue. I usually Google on the Internet or ask a nurse. It always seems complicated
-1	I was well of a high amount of knowledge of medical health care issues when being asked questions from my doctor so that I can understand the information about my body.
1	Once, my grandmother was having extreme sciatic nerve pain and I helped her ease it with my knowledge of helpful exercises.
-1	having a chronic heart condition i have had so many test and proceedures that i am well aware of the medical issues that i face 
-1	What demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues was when I had to go to the hospital because I had s fever.
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health was becoming a nursing student, and working for a children's hospital at the same time.  For the first time ever I was able to piece together my book knowledge with every day real life situations. I was able to not just understand the world around me , but understand it in a different form while working with children.  
1	Diagnosis of hyperthyroidism in which I had to research the condition, learn how to maintain good health, and find support.
-1	I have undergone several tests. I have been in the hospital for a seizure. I have been having fainting spells
-1	I had an allergic reaction to a topical cream and i stopped using it.  I called my doctor and informed her of this and scheduled an appointment to reevaluate my prescription. 
-1	I cant really answer this questioned like im suppose to because i cant recall any experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues 
-1	I had to have a Total knee replacement and research all information for the procedure.  I researched the information before the procedure, and what would happen during, and after.
-1	Helping my mom recover from a stroke and going to,school,for medical assisting at same time. I was able,to explain to her how,important it was to check her sugar so her diabetes doesn't get worse
-1	I WAS OVER-WEIGHT AND MY BLOOD PRESSURE WAS RELATIVELY HIGH. I LOST 64 POUNDS IN A YEAR AND MY BLOOD PRESSURE IS GOOD.
-1	As I got passed my 39!!things started to get sick but as long as I take my medicine I will be alright. Thank god for the doctors.
-1	Was in a CPR class and had to perform on a dummy opened his mouth to give him mouth to mouth and start chest compressions and after a few attempts the man start responding 
1	My daughter had to be sent to the hospital for reactive airway disease. That then shifted to asthma a year later.
-1	When i was pregnant with both of my children i knew a little more than i thought when i went to see my obgyn
-1	I got to doctor and ask them questions. I also search online about health and medical issues. Also in school I learn about health and medical issues.
-1	knowing that a resident gave me something that the chart and my wristband say I'm allergic to.  this has happened more than once.
-1	I do not get depressed.  I look forward to each new morning. My spouse has many medical issues for which I am aware.
-1	I have had many medical issues through out my life and have to learn them and deal with them. That is all the experience with health 
-1	My son started swearing profusely outside on a hot day while playing basketball.  His face was red and he began to vomiting.  I knew he was having a heat stroke.
-1	I have been a cna for 19 years and a cma for 5 years. I have also helped all my family with their medical issues
-1	Well I had hyperthyroidism at one point for years and didn't know what it was, and the doctor told Mess less info instead of more, so I got a second opinion, and did some research myself, and changed my eating habits and exercised more.
1	My Dad lived with Afib    We knew what to look for.  My Dad called me and said his ankle felt like a bad sprain.  I told my Mom to call his doctor,  the doctor had her to take him to emergency.  It turned out to be a blood clot in his leg had to have emergency surgery.  My sister is now a nurse.
-1	I cant think of any right off hand. I don't know of any, not sure of any right now. I am totally out of control with my health conditions
-1	was going to have a laparoscopic Partial hysterectomy. I googled the procedure and watched it on youtube. I was able to ask my DR if she was going to use small blue cup that will fit over the bladder so it would not be punctured during the surgery. 
-1	Me taking care of my own diabetes. I was diagnose with riabetes when i was 9 years old. I have had to give myself insulin shots and lantis. I had to take my own blood pressure because i have hypertension and i also have developed gastropheresis. 
-1	I have had over 12 operations on my arteries, hysterectomy, and several broken bones and 2 children with one being a breech birth.
-1	I have worked in several group homes with clients with different diagnosis. I would have to read up on each client before being introduced to them. I have also had to take med classes to understand the meds they were taking
1	Cancer is prevalent in my family.  Of my mother, father and 5 brothers and sisters, as well as myself, 6 of us have had one or more forms of cancer.  Dealing with their cancers as well as my own gave me quite a knowledge of the disease and its treatments.
1	I have multiple sclerosis.  I don't get a choice but to learn a lot about health issues.  My form is progressive rather than remitting and relapsing, and in addition I have two other disabilities.  I've learned to read medical journals and occasionally know more about neurological drugs and their side effects than some medical professionals in related fields.  This is a common occurrence.
-1	A tingling rash appeared on my waistline and I had a gut feeling it could be shingles yet I had received the shingles vaccine a year previously.  I researched it on line, and got in to see my doctor in time to get started on medication before it got really severe. 
1	One of my friends was recently taken to the hospital with a broken hip.  She also has many other medical conditions, I was immediately called in to help navigate the system and speak with all of the medical providers
-1	i have a nurse for a mother and i also read a lot so i think that i am pretty knowledgeable on certain things
-1	I always demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues because I usually research the condition or issue I need to research.
-1	i have no issues of heath that i am fully aware of, no idea what this question is about, so i do not know anything at all
1	I am able to get information from my dad and my relatives, who are doctors, to get my own opinion on the subject.
-1	 Recognizing my family tendency towards the osteoporosis I have always tried to digest as much protein vitamin D and get enough sunshine to fight this condition on a regular basis.
-1	 My oldest child has eczema, around 1 year old his eczema spread. I suspected food allergies and after testing we found out I was right
1	When my wife had cancer, we discussed the side effects of chemotherapy extensively with her doctor, and were prepared for everything that actually happened to her, which helped her to cope with it.
-1	I am a nurse, so I would like to think that I have a pretty good medical knowledgem, so I would say I demonstrate this every day when taking care of my patients.
-1	i found out that i had cancer so i started to read up on all  the medical stuff i could find so that i could try and beat the cancer and win back my health
1	I don't really have anything that would classify for this, so I don't know what I should put here. I don't have anything else to put here.
1	I had some blood work done that showed a possible cancer - I had the doctor explain the results of the bloodwork in plain english and found that after three more blood tests, the result showed I did not have cancer but just a slightly higher reading that was for me normal
-1	When i needed a hysterectomy, my doctor told i had a cyst on my ovaries, I understood the reason for surgery
-1	knee sometimes gives out when walking but I realize this is from an ongoing cyst in the back of the knee
-1	I had cancer.. almost 5 years ago.. so I went for chemo and radiation.. and being strong.. having family and friends is important.. and eating right.. and going to the doctor as told for regular check ups to keep on top of it and healthy
-1	When my mother was broke out all over her back and legs and arms, and stomach , I looked at the situation closely and I looked on the internet to see what type of illness it was she had and I found the answer to the problem and then told her to go to her regular doctor to get medication
-1	My blood pressure was high and my other numbers were high.  I took the initiative and stopped eating sugar, processed foods, and controlled by carbs.  I had blood tests done 4 months later.  My blood pressure was almost normal and my bad numbers were starting to improve. 
-1	Never had to answer these questions - don't even think it is fair to ask them I went for cataract surgery told anesthesiologist that am medicine sensitive - take dose for 6 yr old - ignored me. Came out of surgery, went home and yelled at my spouse how he lost my cataract kit. - went to dr for one.  2 wks later found it on a shelf to the basement - didn't know I put it there - told opthamalogist - he told me that this anes. causes memory loss. I know my body so next eye was done with no anes. Ditto for allergies to formaldehyde,broke out, could not breath - same for albuterol etc. 
-1	When I ended up getting a sexually trasmitted diesease from an ex boyfriend that cheated on me. I was anxious to get the results back, and was put on medication to try and get right of it. I kept getting sick because of the medicine so they had to switch it at least once or twice just to make it go away
-1	I used to play sports heavily and during conditioning i hurt my knee applying too much pressure to the joints so i got them examined to make sure there wasnt a tear and switched up my legwork routine to prevent further injuries. 
-1	I HONESTLY DONT KNOW WHAT YOU ARE ASKING I HAVE HAD ALOT OF EXPERIENCES IN HEALTH ISSUES BUT I DONT KNOW WHAT TO SAY
-1	I work as a nurse so therefore I know medical terms so I'm  confident in my knowledge of medical issues
-1	I have had a chronic issue since the age of 2, So for more than 50 years I have dealt with doctors, hospitals and medications. The primary care I have now has save my life. He is the best.
-1	when i had cancer cells on my cervix ,i was scared to death .Next time is when i had a kidney stone and was pregnant with my son ,
-1	When I went to my yearly physical I was offered a vaccination and was given the options of whether or not to receive it after being told the potential benefits and side effects.
-1	i like to find an dignose how i feel by going on web md an serching for causes why im sick an what i can do to make my self feel better
-1	I am demonstrating great health and others have no troubles at all on my life threats or else I do not have any worries about my health or whatsoever about my health or else I will be very worried and everything.
-1	I was a CNA so I always am experienceing  and demonstrating medical issues at all times and caring for those of all different issues
-1	when my daughter got sick with mono and strep and no one could figure out what was wrong with her but i said to test for mono and it came out positive.
-1	other than my current or families conditions, informational resource is my only knowledge base. on-line or doctor explainations is only history
-1	I have had my medicine changed several times so I have to be precise on dosages.I have also had to learn side effects of certain medication. I have high blood pressure so I have to cut down on salt.
-1	i don't have any answer i just tried my best to answer what i could...why does that really matter anyway?
-1	there hasnt been any specific thing, I think I have a general knowledge just through life experiences like having children, having surgeries, and just general research of things im curious about
1	When spouse had blood clots, I knew his lack of regular exercise, especially walking, put him at risk. When he was prescribed a blood thinner, I was alert to risks of him being injured and gero
-1	The fact I knew I was diabetic. I had gestational diabetes and my doctor just said I was borderline. No. I know what the symptoms are.
1	Both my father and my first wife died of cancer. My mom died of heart problems after two operations. I recently had a minor MI but did no muscle damage to my heart. My second wife is a retired nurse.
-1	Well, I hae been in hosspitals and doctor off a lot lately so I have had a lot of practice with talking to doctors, reading medical material, etc.
-1	When i was sick i knew what to do.  I got tea medicine and cough drops.  I ate chicken noodle soup and crackers and dry toast.  I felt better in two days.
-1	I had few test about my pregnancy and miscarriages before. I can understand some of the lab result but most I have to ask my doctor about them
-1	I have had 2 bouts with cancer, had a organ transplant, have kidney failure, have M.S. as well as other illnessess. I have been around all types of medical fields and have had to work hand in hand with doctors, nurses and hospitals to maintain and coordinate my health care.  I am extremely well versed in an array of medical issues and terms and have had to become extremely knowledgable so that I can have a strong understanding of my health issues
-1	I don't think that I know that much about health or anything like that. I'm fairly clueless about health.
-1	watch alot of medical shows and use to work in medical field. there is nothing else. and any other way i know more about medical knowledge and health information.
-1	I studied a little in the medical field, and a friend of mine had extreme pain on his right side. I told him to see a doctor, because I thought it was appendicitis, and it turns out it was.
-1	I was diagnosed with major depression at age 16 along with anorexia and have suffered from mental health issues a ever since so I have been forced to learn a lot about mental health and the way society and the country treat people with such illnesses
1	My husband exhibited some symptoms and after research I felt he had Parkinsons and got him to his doctor.  I was correct.
-1	I didn't really know a lot of the stuff.  I just know how to do basic things like bandaids and stuff like that.  The more injured I get, the less I know 
-1	I have many issues lately such as prostate and copd. Before that I had many physical accidents and one that made me half metal (L) femur and face and head. Iv'e also had other issues and researched almost all. What I didn't research I simply listened to what my body let me do vs what others said I can't do. 
-1	I don't have anything to say ai though I did take care of my mother in law when she had surgery and her nurse said that if I wanted to be a nurse she would recamend me
-1	My family has a history of health problems. I learned mostly from being with them to exams, conversation, or self-education from books and online sources.
-1	Really little or none.  My mother had many health problems so I learned a lot because of that and most of the rest was learned from books, news articles or what doctors have told me.
-1	At a restaurant many years ago my friend starting choking on a piece of hot dog. I used my knowledge of choking to give him the himlick maneuver and help him.
-1	When i found out i had social anxiety disorder i looked it up on the internet and saw i had all the symptoms and then talked to my doctor about and then got put on meds
-1	When i took my grandpa to the doctor. He didnt understand the doctors wording and then i explained it to him more on his level and he understood.
-1	the only exprerience i have is being a patient for many many years. there is no other medical experience that i have
-1	I'm a self thought  health and medical issues that pop up and do research.  I'll do my best to find an answer.
1	I was diagnosed with cancer and found myself sitting with surgeons, oncologists, radiologists, etc.  I certainly learned a lot of medical speaking during this time.  It was very important for me that I have someone else with me to help me remember what was actually said.
1	Many times when I have gotten a fever, I stay in bed and sweat it out rather than seeing a doctor for it. And I am not sure how to answer this question
-1	I studied to become a nurse and that plus raising three children with all the things kids get in school.  I learned a lot with the first one and each after that.
-1	I don't know of any instances in my life where I was presented with a need to demonstrate knowledge of medical issues.
-1	when i was going to the hospital with my brother to help him understand what the doctor was telling him.
1	When I was called in to the draft board for a physical to see if I qualified for the military I was 18 years old. I knew I had high blood pressure but had never had it checked by a doctor. When the examiner asked if anybody had anything physically wrong, I stepped forward. They took my blood pressure and immediately disqualified me from any military duty, I knew my physical limitations.
-1	I don't have any. Like I said I have a faulty memory so I cannot answer this question properly. zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
-1	Thanks again for the baby was born yesterday and today we have been talking about your experience with the light bill was paid for this position and would love you so much for your help with your company and we will have the money is not working with you and your family and friends and family
1	Severe stomach pain and constant vomiting for extended period of time led me to the emergency room where I was later found to have complete bowel blockage due to Crohns Disease.
-1	 I am not experienced enough to know a lot about medical issues or health issues. From people that I know and have talked to that has shared some insights with me in the past I can say I understand just some basic stuff. I have done some research as it relates to certain medical conditions. I would love an easier way to understand medical stuff in general and for doctors to see the need to demonstrate to patients as simple as possible so we can better understand. 
-1	While there was a time of doing exercise in or outside taking time to have enough fuel and fluids to not get dehydrated, and taking time in when needed for rest to maintain health.
-1	Due to the fact that I suffer from COPD, emphysema, high blood pressure and congestive heart failure
-1	I just experience the pain and you just know but I don't have much knowledge on myself as far as medical problems to diagnose. 
-1	none of the Cosby show season with salt and great to hear from you soon after a long day and I am sure you are should I say that the 
1	I use the health knowledge everyday with physical activity and the foods I eat. Like going to the doctors office to get work physicals.
-1	Becoming a victim of COPD and also arthritis in my shoulders back and hips and knees from years of doing CNA work
-1	When i was having. Children i knew about having c- sections because i had to have them .so I looked it up to fund out what i had the procedure was and what can happen .
-1	i went to boarding school and some of my friends frequently got sick when the health center was closed. i would ususally help take care of them with basic medical practices.
-1	I really don't have much knowledge because I don't have any medical or health issues. I feel that I am healthy and only go to the hospital rarely because I don't have  any conditions 
1	I had a sinus issue that led me to believe I was having other symptoms and I correctly diagnosed the problem before seeking medical attention
-1	I diagnosed that I had a hernia on my hip area. I looked it up before I arrived at the doctor office 
-1	I don't have any medical issues everything is good. I Raymond right and exercise everyday twice a day
-1	I only understand health and medical issues if a Dr. explains them to me or if by some miracle there is a chart that explains each area of nutrition in detail. Reading labels tells me the amount of food calories etc that we are allowed to eat to maintain a healthty lifestyle. Any other information I would have to look it up online
-1	Because years ago I had a stress test. And it came back normal with a little scary news. But at the end it all turned out to be good news.
1	I do not have an experience besides just knowing what is wrong with me based on my previous experiences just being sick.
-1	My sister period never stop , and every doctors she went through told her she was fine . Until she want back to Haiti and see someone else 
1	I knew that someone was lying about having cancer once because she said her doctor looked at it and diagnosed it without a biopsy. 
-1	My health is great Nun but high blood pressure and try to eat the rite food and take my medicine rite
1	I am presently having trouble with abnormal menstrual cycles with heavy bleeding. In  efforts to resolve this issue,  I have had two vaginal ultrasounds, and have went in for a biopsy to get tested for endometritis.  The issue is being treated with birth control and being monitor. If issue cannot be contained,  then a d&c will be needed. 
-1	 I had a   Mammogram  they found a mass in my breast  but they said I needed too have a  biopsy  i'm really confused about the biopsy 
-1	I can't describe an experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues because I never had to. 
-1	I was told to take a specified does of medicine for a specified number of weeks. I did it and the problem went away.
-1	I don't have a ton of knowledge of medical issues. I do know if I have a cold or not, but other than that, I consult a doctor if an issue is particularly bad.
-1	As a Home healthcare provider, you are knowledge about certain medical issues, becasuse of the clients they you deal with.
1	One time a friend was choking while we were eating at Applebee's. I have learned how to do the Heimlich maneuver online, so I instantly sprang from my seat and started heaving their stomach.
-1	When I found out I had food and environmental allergies, and high blood pressure. I realized that serious changes had to happen with my eating habits and exercise. Drugs can help but positive changes would make the best difference.  
-1	I have not had an experience in my life that I had to demonstrate my knowledge  of health or medical issues 
-1	I guess it the one where I had a broken leg and was never informed by the doctor. After two years of having some over the top pain. The broken leg was never treated and therefore the hip suffered my trauma. Because of missed diagnois I am no in need of a hip replacement.
1	I can't think of one specific situation that demonstrates my knowledge of health-related issues. The fact that I am healthy, active and satisfied with the way my body performs is enough for me.
-1	I try to stay away from the doctor and hosptail as much as possiblde, try and stay healthy as much as I can
-1	I looked it up online a lot. I also learned a lot from medical school and medical channels. So it helped me to adjust my health.
-1	I tend to get medication refill and I know a lot about medication that has been prescribe to me. I do research on medications when they have been prescribed to me.  
-1	An experience that shows my knowledge of health issues would be during a tests in high school based off of common sense of medical issues 
-1	One day I could tell my mom was acting different and was just a off day for her, she was groggy, irritable and just not herself and then a few hours later she had a massive heart attack 
-1	You she is YouTube and the mother and mother the same way with the kids and she came back together and she has to come out and 
-1	My mother has worked on the medical field since I was born. And I would always read her books and ask her questions regarding our body and how some things worked.
-1	I've been in the hospital a fee times.  My boyfriend also went to school for nursing so he's very knowledgeable on the subject.  I learn a lot from him actually.
1	I had a sister who passed away many years ago from congenital heart disease so I grew up learning  about the disease.
-1	When my father was diagonise with cancer.   The knowledge on had help me to care for him and know a little of what was happening to him.
-1	TOO MUCH STYLE TO BEAR THE EVERYDAY LONG ACCOUNT OF SIMPLE ACORDE OF BEST STRICT IN THE FOLLOWING INSTANCE OF SO MUCH INSTRUCTION TO FOLLOW
-1	I had a ruptured appendix and I knew the signs and symptoms so I got to the doctor early and it was fixed in time to have no server problem 
-1	I don't have no experience with a medical issue since I only had a few and I know more about them to know that I need help and wish I could get the right treatment to work
-1	Never really had any real major medical issues. So I really can't answer this question. I glad I can't answer this question
-1	I had hodgkins lymphoma for 4 years so I learned a lot about that type of cancer. I researched a lot so I could understand it fully. Researched all my chemo drugs and everything with that as well. Had two transplants as well.
-1	My mom fell and I told her not to move in case something was broken. I called the ambulance and continued to monitor her.
-1	My husband had a heart attack, then colon cancer then pancreatic cancer from which he ultimately died. He had two stents after his heart attack. He had radiation therapy and chemotherapy which he had a bad reaction to.  All of this in the course of 14 months. I was with him for every appointment and procedure.
-1	I attended college. I excelled in Chemistry and Biology. I also took honors level courses in those areas.
-1	When i was diagnosed with hypothyroidism. I have learned over the years this can be easily corrected by diet exercise and getting your hormones in balance. Sometimes medicine is necessary but I have also found that taking armour thyroid is much more effective than taking synthyroid because armour also has T3 and synthryoid does not. 
-1	I have never had an experience like that because I am very uneducated in the medical field and don't have many medical problems
-1	I am not a doctor and other than getting sick I don't have a great understand of medical issues. This survey makes me think that you need doctors to fill out this survey. This is a insane survey
-1	I try to take care of myself.  I have a physical yearly mammogram yearly and a women's physical.  I try to eat healthy and get excerise
1	I am vegan and get bombarded by questions by nonvegans about where I get my protein, my B12, iron, etc. I list tons of sources and usually shock people who had no idea that those food sources had all those vitamins, minerals, protein, etc.
-1	I am sure I know I have knowledge about medical issues that I can explain and demonstrate a good Idea and explain my problems I am having to my doctor
1	I get cluster headaches and most neurologists aren't educated in what the differences are between cluster headaches and migraines.  I also have Mnire's disease and went to a neurotologist, he had no knowledge of cluster headaches and I have to explain to him why they are different than migraines. 
1	the only thing I can relate this question to is knowing my own body. I know when to seek medical advise right away and when to wait a reasonable period of time to see if the symptom wanes.
-1	I have had 14 operations on my right hip due to an auto accident.  I first had one hip replacement that led to MRSA.  The MRSA was difficult to get rid of as I had to have infusions with Vancomicin to get rid of it 5 different times.  In the process, I have been in the hospital 14 times.  
1	My cousin has type one diabetes and I have learned to take care of him throughout the years. I now have taken care of many children with type one diabetes. 
1	One time I was having a discussion with a family member about health, and the subject of blood pressure came up.  I explained the differences between hypertension and hypotension.
-1	Im having a hard time thinking of one fpr myself.  Recently my granddaughter had febrile seizures spent the morning at the er. Lot of information to understand 
-1	I have taken classes that were suited specifically for disabled students from first grade through high school.
-1	I used to work at a nursing home. After every meal we had to keep track of how much they ate and drank with percentages and milliliters. We had to sit and calculate exactly how much they have eaten and how much they drank and chart it in the kiosk.
-1	I had to know about leg cramps and when to drink more water to avoid  cramps. I had to also know how much water to drink.
1	Right now, my husband and I are going through the autism screening process with our eight year old son. My general knowledge has helped me when answering many of the potentially more confusing questions in several of the seemingly endless evaluations we have been completing as of late.
1	When I became sexually active, I knew I needed to see a doctor. After being diagnosed with an STD, I asked for all possible outcomes and treatments and have since gone in to follow up procedures twice in the past year. 
-1	walking from the bank,and started shaking really bad couldn,t walk any more passed out after crossing the street with my husband woke up in the hospital.
-1	I dont know if I ever have had one but maybe when I bandaged my own cut up instead of going to the doctor which I never have had to do thankfully but that would be it.
1	Knowing that it was needed to see a doctor when breathing issues could not be cleared up by over the counter products and would likely be pneumonia and even worse, as it was.
-1	I demonstrated my knowledge of health and medical issues when somebody asked me about how you deal with surgery and your emotional well being after the surgery. I explained that everyone is different and even though you are hurting always look for the positive in everything.
-1	"This is a confusing questions, it's either not worded correctly it or means something completely different than I think it does but I am serverly over weight and doctors have been telling me to lose weight for years but the doctor I had 7 years ago never mentioned anything about my weight and that was the first time in my life that I said to myself ""I'm going to lose weight!"" And I did! I lost 100 pounds, my doctor never told me I needed to lose weight, just that she was proud of me for making the choice myself and she has found that a doctor can't make someone lose weight just by telling them they have to, the person had to want to. But I lost my health insurance due to the new Marketplace health insurance deal and I couldn't do to the doctors anymore, I have started gaining weight back. I realize that I need someone with me encouraging me and giving me ideas on what I can do like my doctor did without forcing it onto me. "
-1	I do not understand these above questions as I am not a medical profesional. I was not taught to count calories or read labels correctly
1	I've never had to go out of way to render aid to someone physically or vocally using medical advice. 
-1	My life style keep me healthy if I stop it I would probably be sick I have alot of ailments so the exercises that I do on a normal day to day keeps me going
-1	My knowlegde of health or medical issues is not alot. when i went to the dentist and they had to expalin my teeth cleaning that was easy to understand?
-1	I took medical classes all through high school, and also took many college courses in the medical field. I also work as a CNA in a nursing home.
-1	When I had a cist under my arm and I had to listen to several different doctors and decide what treatment was best to undergo
-1	I think I know quite a bit about my health over all but I real like that I do not know so much of it
-1	I recently had a UTI. I need it was one, because of the burning when I p ee and the pain in my kidneys. 
-1	When I broke my knee and it did not heal right and they had to bore holes into my knee to make new cartilage grow.
-1	I have sat in hospitals for months at a time with family members talking to doctors and doing research
1	There was a time when I went to the doctor believing that I had the flu, only to be told that it was simply a common cold. But after listing off the symptoms I was experiencing, the physician agreed with my assessment. 
-1	MY MOM WORKED AS A NURSE AND I WORKED AS A NURSE'S AIDE A SHORT TIME. MY DAUGHTER HAD AN BREATHING ATTACK DUE TO POLLEN IN THE AIR. 
-1	I once had a fever of 102.7.  It was late at night and I didn't want to chance driving myself to the hospital. I took Tylenol and gave myself an alchol bath. By morning my fever was gone.
-1	I acquired a skin infection and I am diabetic. Because I didn't get treatment initially, I had sepsis. After emergency surgery I was hospitalized in a nursing home for 2 1/2 months.
-1	I know only a little bit about health. But what I do not know I learn, and always make sure I educate myself. To learn about different issue
-1	learning health related issues in a health class, high school or college, maybe even in elementary school, even at home from parents conversations.
1	I sprained my ankle one time and I was aware of how to tie and rest my ankle using the proper techniques such as rest, ice, compression, and elevation.
-1	i dont think i have to much knowledge on the subject. but i am willing to learn. i am watching the lion king wishing i had a drink as usual,
-1	I would have a terrible headache and backache and I could not place the cause however after a couple of hours of pain and ache I decided to take the next step and take some pain medicine as well as consult my local doctor and pharmacists about what the symptoms could mean and what I could do to the crease my pain while maintaining my work ethic
-1	I really havent experienced any bad luck with health. I always try to eat right and do good by my bodu. I try to avoid junky foods and other health scares along thecway
1	When I was issued with high blood pressure. I could already tell I already had high blood pressure without a reading because of the side effects I was having.
-1	i have a open heart surgury  and i have to make the choice myself to have the surgury or not to have the surgury
-1	I cured diabetes byreading the internet. I exercised more ate rihht took herbs got off siger. Now my blood sugar dtaus at 90
-1	Well I have seziures so I know quite a lot about what cause it and what I can do to prevent it. I study on my condition so I wouldn't be in the unknown
-1	I wanna be the best I can be because if I'm not what would I live for I think you do things in your life to survive.
-1	I went to the doctor's office because I was experiencing headaches. Tests were done and it was determined that I was suffering from the affects of having high blood pressure.
-1	I don't remember any because it was too many years ago. I rarely have any medical issues that i had to be informed about an5 health issues
-1	I am an asthmatic. I suffer a lot in the winter and spring time. I have been given all types of medications. Some work better than others. It is a constant live struggle. 
-1	i havent had any medical issues in my life my health is overall good i dont get sick or attend to many doctors offices or hospitals
-1	I know only what I have experience in I've pertaining to health knowledge of health and medical issue
-1	I am not sure I understand the question. I'm sorry.  I don't know what you are looking for as far as a answer goes 
-1	I have my CNA license so i know everything about medical and health issues. It is specifically in older people, but i have learned about blood pressure, diabetics, and more health issues. 
-1	I had a light headache and dizzy spells and rapid heart rate with sweating that lead up to a light heartache
-1	I know a little bit about sexual health. I don't have too much knowledge about health issues when it comes to cholesterol and blood sugar levels. 
-1	When my sister recently had a seizure I knew that she had to be placed on her side and kept calm. She could not be jarred or moved. I knew the basics of what to do as we waited for the ambulance to arrive.
-1	Just being a woman and all that we go to the doctor for. And my children.But my issue ore when I had my gallbladder remover.
-1	When I was younger, I notice hanging around trees I would sneeze a lot. I was aware the trees was making sick. I told my parent who give over the counter medication to relieve of the discomfort.
1	I have diabetes and I had my appendix taken out. I currently monitor what I eat and I was learning all I could while dealing with my appendix situation.
-1	Everyday that I have school I have to demonstrate what I already know against what I'm being taught. 
-1	I took classes in college for a medical degree. I also took an internship as well and we worked in hospitals and learned about everyday life for doctors
-1	My knowledge of a medical issue i had was told to me that I had a serious kidney disease when in fact it was not kidney disease at all
-1	Going to school and going to the doctors as a kid helped me understand some basic medical terms that were in the suvery
-1	Doing a roofing job, one of the men fail off his ladder and was not breathing so i gave him mouth to mouth till help came.
-1	When I was in college, I was able to help a friend diagnose a skin rash and other symptoms as an allergic reaction based on information I learned in an Immunology class. 
-1	I have had 3 surgeries. i had my first breast surgery at age 17. The second one at age 25. I had a hestorectomy at age 34. I go to do imagaing at least twice a year. 
-1	I'm alive and getting better, despite the fact that no doctor has ever been able to diagnose me correctly to fix the problems I have.  I've been learning to do it on my own and it works much better than wasting my time with doctors
-1	I love going to the store and back. Swimming and fishing everydy. THis survey is very fun and exciting. Big cones and sticks going down the driving.
-1	When doctors come together to care for need of a patient by treating them by care and love. To whom may concern to show care people feeling not well.
-1	Having some family members diagnosed with cancer.  I have read so much about this topic.  My last experience with this illness, shook my belief in the medical system. 
-1	I wish not to tak or share my personal experience. I pretty health for th most part. No serious conditons
1	I currently can not think of a situation that demonstrates my knowledge of health or medical issues besides diet and exercise 
-1	I don't know and I hate that I don't want to go to the doctor office all the time I don't like it at all
-1	I was feeling a bit depressed after I started taking a brand of birth control, I had severe mood swings and felt that it was due to the birth control so I stopped. As soon as I stopped taking the birth control I felt like myself again.
-1	When my son said there was a burning sensation whenever he urinated I knew that he had a urinary tract infection.
1	I was born severely lactose intolerant and with numerous food allergies.  As a child, an allergist told me that I would have to learn how to take care of myself to avoid adverse reactions to food I could not tolerate.  I had to learn to cook for myself as a child; as I could sldom eat the meals the rest of my family routinely prepared.
-1	When I go to the doctor I'm sure to ask extra questions sometimes I even write them down because i know  I forget to ask. I also had training for medical assistant so that's where my knowledge come from as far as medical issues
-1	Taking care of your health eat heathy food take care of your body stay fit and healthy gets a doctor check up ones and a wild
-1	I experienced a health issue and do my own research.  Later from talking with peers and a visit to the doctors, I found out that I had learned quite a bit and then realized that I was highly informed.
-1	I know a couple people who have high cholesterol and was there when the doctor told him that they may have a heart attack
-1	I know exactly what to take when i have a yeast infection or panic attack without having to go to the doctors. Simply by using natural home remedies.
-1	 All the medication I take is for seizures and depression or can't sleep.. my health problems come from a car accident.
-1	An experiment that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues when be when i discovered i had high blood pressure and i had to monitor my blood pressure every day.
-1	I had a hip replacement a few years and it show that I have a small amount of knowledge of health or medical issures.  The physican nurse was able to explain things about the procdecure of before and after that made me aware of how little I know.
-1	When I was in the hospital for surgery and I was suggesting to the Doctors what to do and what to prescribe and they agreed.
-1	Glaucoma is a disease that damages your eye's optic nerve, when fluid builds up in the front of your eye.  The fluid increases the pressure  damaging the optic nerve.
-1	Well, learning in my health class about a lot of conditions I can say have that I've had plenty not only from physical but from mental issues as well.
-1	I do not have any experiences that would fall in this category.  I am basically a healthy person and have never had any major sickness or medical conditions.
-1	When I was pregnant I learned a whole new medical language. I knew nothing expect the average information on pregnancy. Once I left my Ob doctor I would gather all the information given and look things up to read and to really get a better understanding.
-1	Taken Science (Biology, living environment and Earth Science) in 8th and beyond. Searching on Wikipedia and etc.
-1	When I had a rash on my arms I researched it to find out I had eczema but my ob told me I had psoriasis but it turned out I was right and he was wrong.
-1	9 yrs ago I was diagnosed with stage 1 ovarian cancer I knew it was low risk with surgery.Now I am 9yrs cancer free.
-1	I believed that if i supposed to do something to check myself out, I will do what the Doctor tell me what to take to see what my situation might be concerning my Health. My health to me is very important.
-1	A mammogram is used to screen women for breast cancer. False positives are tests that incorrectly show a positive result. 85% of positive mammograms are actually false positives. 
-1	I go to different doctors but they all have the same thing a like. We fill in the same thing when we go abd the ask the same questions.
1	When my husband was complaining of trouble sleeping and loud snoring I suggested he may have sleep apnea.  On his next visit to the doctor, he agreed, and scheduled a sleep study.
-1	NothingIhzve nothing. wrong with my health at all Eat right and exercise when I can and have any time inky day.
-1	Cool ok yeah in th in the codes in the real day in the star of the fur on the ocean time in c theatre in the under gu
-1	I had to get a surgery and it was good the outcome was good everything went very well with the surgery and the physician 
-1	My experience is that all  drugs are bull and have very little to do with actual findings. Resources with actual facts is not provided or proven.
1	I was feeling dizzy and was rushed to the emergency room.  There the doctor told me my O2 reading was 84.  I realized that I wasn't getting enough oxygen and would need to go on oxygen at home.  He called a home health care facility and arranged for an oxygen concentrator to be delivered that evening.
-1	When I was diagnosed with anxiety and depression. I researched along with Dr's hrlp and over came the condition.
-1	when I had a bump under my eye I look up online and found out what it was. I treated it and it went down.
-1	my health is everything i wanted it to be and then some. i had a checkup recently and everything is okay.
-1	I tried a Medical Assistance program and learned alot about the medical field.  Also found out alot about ananami before I even got started.
-1	I have not come against any and I  hope that I never have to experience that I  would not really now 
-1	I witnessed someone catch a disease and since then, I have made ways to stay healthy by eating healthier foods, more fruits, more vegetables, and I wash certain foods if needed. I barbeque meats more than rather than using grease, and I constantly drink liquids. These liquids are used to nuetralize and rejuvenate the body to stay hydrated
-1	This is the best sites that are coming out of the best thing about this is a shared link cancel your service For the
-1	WHEN I WAS HELPING MY MOTHER TAKE CARE OF MY FATHER WHEN HE WAS DYING OF LIVER FAILURE, I BECAME PRETTY ADEPT AT ADMINISTERING HIS MEDICATIONS AND FEEDING HIM HIS MEALS.
-1	There was a time i saw someone having a seizure and i held their head to the side so they wouldnt choke on vomit and helped them stay calm after it was over and the medics arrived on the scene
-1	I dont know cause I really haven't had one in my life an praying I don't have one so I really cant answer the question 
-1	I'm not doctor so I haven't any real knowledge of medical issues.  I have a bachelors degree in recreation none of this prefers my degree at all 
1	When i injured my back, i was able to tell the doctor exactly what it was. I just went to them for confirmation and a solution to the problem.
-1	I don't know what to say but I love chipotle in medical issues is not nothing to play with it is very serious you should take care of your health and you were right
1	Last year I had to be retested for my mammogram. I didn't get upset, I just scheduled the second test. I figured that they saw something and they wanted to be as accurate as possible. The second test showed nothing.
-1	I was diagnosed with thyroid disease and have been taking synthroid for close to twenty years. I recently noticed my tsh was going up in my yearly tests. My doctor switched me to a different dosage.
-1	i really wish i could give you an answer but idk lol sorry but should god always be the answer 
-1	The doctors treated me good when i was feeling bad so you knoq im not going our sad, my bitch right beside me we trying to get that bag.
-1	taking care of my mother who had lymphoma and taking care of my grandmother who had dementia.  i had to learn about medications and procedures
-1	I cannot because I have no real knowledge of health or medical issues that I'm aware of.Most times it is just a guess.or I've read something about it.
-1	School helps u learn and grow staying at home and doing nothing damages ur brain bc ur brain needs to stay on not off
-1	Grandma diagnosed with colon and bladder cancer. All Doctor's appt. Informed and provided care through surgery. Provided home health care. Took classes on taking care of her post surgery. 
-1	I am very familiar with how the medical world works. I am proficient in the knowledge of the profession.
-1	I go to the doctor often so I am able to So most of the different things they are able to do and the machines that they use. 
1	Recently, I experienced a shooting pain in my back and tingling sensation in my legs. I researched to find that these were symptoms of sciatica, which made sense of a feeling of numbness in my thighs and back pain that I'd been feeling for the past few months. 
-1	I don't technically have a medical issue because usually I go get occasionally check up to protect myself from serious affects
-1	I was having a out of body experience of heat flashes nausea and faint spells along with sleepiness body pain cramps
-1	The time i pop a hip muscle they gave me the odd on how it happened then ways of testing my blood checking and looking
-1	I did suffer from kidney stones, but I found out from the doctor I wasn't drinking enough water in my system on a daily basis
-1	i went to visit my doctor and  he told me that i need to quite smoking cause it can cause cancer and  to make sure i take my medcine as i was told.
-1	When my mother had a massive heart attack doctors said her right coronary was 100% blocked. She also had 40-60% heart damage. The team put a stent in but told her she would need to come back for open heart surgery because 3 other vessels were blocked. I used the information I knew about how the heart pumps blood to know what was wrong with mom and how they can fix it.
-1	My mom, two aunt died of cancer, my mom has had a problem with diabetes for years, so I had to pay attention to doctor conversation and I had to learn a little to under stand
-1	When I had to take health class in school. We had to learn how to do CPR on other students, as well as learn other Medical information to stay healthy. 
-1	When i was giving birth to my children. I learened something new each time. I haven't been in the hospital for anything other than birth.
-1	When my mom was sick I drove to the store and got her medicine and gave it to her and she felt better
-1	I was recently diagnosed with cancer of the throat and it was scary at first but the radiologist and the oncologist after talking to me and explaining to me everything that I was to experience help me better prepare for what I  experienced 
-1	Not sure if this counts but i took ap biology in high school and we learned a lot about medical topics.
-1	I found a lump in my breast at age 30. It was a benign tumor that I had removed. This allowed me to research and gain knowledge about early detection. 
-1	Life today is very overrated. People think that their life revolves around everyone to ever exist. They believe they are more special because they are sick while millions are dying from bombers 
-1	That I have very bad allergies my health for the most part have been pretty good I just try to at right and be careful
-1	I recently acquired bronical aspergillosis. After a week and a half hospital stay, I also had to have a biopsy and eventual surgery to remove the fungus.
-1	I Research a lot, if/ when I get symptoms, I research..I think research is #1 in everything, I Havent had a health scare in years..I was always high risk During pregnancy and my first baby was born at 27 weeks.
-1	I have been told inaccurate thongs by doctors, a number of times. Regarding myself and !y children. I will not go into detail.
-1	I feel that my knowledge of health or medical issues has increased over the years. I also feel that my experience in my life has graduated over a period of time.
-1	i have never had any medical issues that is dealing with the heart my heart has been good so far i havent smoke no cigeratte or nothing so my health is fine
-1	I can only provide medical knowledge or issues to others if I have experienced the same issue or have taken care of my children or spouse with the same issue.
-1	I'm only good with basic knowledge health topics, anything more than that I would need someone to help me understand.
-1	I stared out in Resthomes and from taking care of people.I read anything I could about  medical things
1	A few years ago I had a severe pain in my chest. I went to the ER and was diagnosed with a muscle strain. I asked the doctor to run more tests because it didn't feel like that to me, I was right I had a cardiac issue.
-1	One time I fractured my knee and they told me it was a hairline fracture that would heal in 6 to 8 weeks if I kept the brace on and took the medication prescribed to me 
-1	My health is very good I do exercise  regularly  and eat healthy I take all my medication on a daily  basis 
-1	When my mother had surgery for. Burst appendix l learned about what happens when it burst and what can happen if u ignore it too ong.
1	A few years ago I went to a chiropractor for back pains. I was shown an xray of my spine and the doctor explain what lumbar disease was and how the spine works
-1	non i haven't experienced any of these for less than a year and other pain. but i have told my doctor about it
-1	When I became a caregiver for my mom who had cancer and going to treatments with her and listening to her doctor I was able to understand better what was actually going on and why
1	The time in my life that I demonstrated knowledge of health was when I had a routine physical and my blood pressure was slightly high. I was told to come back in six months to re-examine. During that six months I changed my diet, exercised regularly and practiced holistic and meditation techniques. My next doctors visit, I was told that my blood pressure was significantly reduced and back to the normal range.
1	A time that I demonstrated knowledge is when I told as friend that she may have diabetes due to bad eating. She went to the doctor and she was right.
-1	"I cannot think of an experience that is specific to me but my son was abit "" yellow "" when he was born.  Based on my knowledge of health and medical issues, I could tell the he had jaundice because of my experience "
-1	When I was told I had diabetes so I knew I had to lower my intake on calories,carbohydrates, and other things.
-1	Well a while ago I was told I had asthma now a few years later I don't have asthma my health is fine
-1	I had bells palsy. when  I went to the Dr I wwas able to help them determine what the illness was so treatment could begin right away
-1	I have some health issue so i know a little about medical issues.lm not a mathematician so the problem you needed me to figure out don't contain to me
-1	The problems will be bad if I didn't have what unneeded to have . Me getting all the work I need to be done would probably be a hard thing to do sometimes 
-1	I consult web md to gain more knowledge about symptoms I may have.  I consult the nurse on line to determine what the next steps should be. 
-1	When my niece was choking I had to do the baby Heimlich maneuver Everbody was amazed and my sister was grateful.
-1	I had a great experience in my to demonstrate my knowledge of health when I was in the CNA training program and I was answering most of the questions 
-1	I feel that I have not been able to demonstrate my knowledge in healthcare or medical issues, but I hope that I will have a chance to in the future.
-1	When I was admitted to E.R, I was able to tell doctor exactly what may had been causing my issue to due previous diagnosis from my specialist.
-1	Mainly my knowledge of math from school and common sense. I am not 100 percent sure about my answers though.
-1	I really haven't had any experience in life where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issue
-1	A neighbor was into drugs and ODed. I ran over did CPR til the EMS got there. Everyone said thanks to me he made it through. Now he's on a path to recovery (i hope) 
-1	I was sick one day i thougt i have a stomach virus. I went snd looked up thd signs and symptoms snd it lined up with whst I believed. I also went to docyor and the doctor told me i have food poisoning
-1	I have minimum knowledge about medical Issues but I can try to treat a Cold or the Flu. I know how to treat Minor burns and cuts.
-1	I don't have much experience with health issues because I never paid attention but I know it would become very helpful
-1	In my lve had a good understanding of medical problems and how much of something I'm taking in so I've had a nice understanding with evreything
-1	i have never had an experience like this none that i can think of off top besides me being born premature that's all but i don't remember it
-1	AN INSTITUTIONAL BASED CROSSED SECTIONAL STUDY WAS CONDUCTED AMONG 320 RANDOMLY SELECTED HEALTH PROFESSIONAL FROM AUGEST12- 25 A PRETESTED ADMINSTERED QUESTIONAIRE  DATA ENTRY  AND ANALYSIS WERE BEGIN DONE USING EPI-INFO VERSION 3.5.4 AND SPPS VERSION 20 RESPECTIVELY.
-1	I was diagnosed with Seborrheic Dermatitis but the prescribed topical medication did not yield positive results for me, though I applied it daily. Rather than continuing purchasing this expensive topical medication I began looking for natural remedies and found what worked best for my skin type.
-1	In a few sentences please describe an experiment in your life that demos that your knowledge of health 
-1	I die in my sleep  because I couldn't not even wake up because I was so scared  but now I'm am better know 
-1	Often times I read news and articles for the fun of it, I have some knowledge from that. My mother is a nurse in a clinic, but not an RN nurse and that has helped me as well. 
-1	I had to have a major surgery die to fibroid tumers and ovarian cist. So after surgery i recovered abmnd y months  later i had to have anoter one within six months.
-1	When I was told I was pregnant I was given and told a list of do's and don't of what I can and can't do if I was to start having chest pains I had to call the doctor or if I spot blood in my panties I had to go to the emergency room
-1	Recently I lost an unborn child. I knew that somthing was wrong. 1 day after I took an home pregnancy test I started bleeding. I went to the hospital the next day and was told to come back 2 days later to check my levels again this happened on the the 7th and the 9th of one month and I ended up having surgery by the 26th of the same month. I just knew something was wrong seeing as this wasn't my first miscarriage but the 1 thing that was different this time was that my baby had an heart beat but the baby was in my tube. So they had to take not only the baby but also my tube. 
-1	My husband has a vein in his leg that never treated and his mom kept telling us that it was a parasite by the shape of it but I knew it couldn't be because I noticed it before and it gets swollen only when he does physical activity so I suggested him to go to a specialist and it turned out to be only a vein.
-1	"I recently went to a hospital and recieved very rushed service from a ""professional"" who gave me naproxen for severe abdominal and back pain claiming I had ""simply slept wrong"". I did not take the naproxen because I know all about nsaids and their affect on the stomach. I went back to the same hospital after the pain persisted and received excellent service from staff who agreed that the drugs given to me could worsen my condition and were ill advised. "
-1	I started noticing stiffness in my fingers. I went to the doctor and found out it was arthritis. It doesn't go away but can be controlled with medicine. 
-1	I would have to say that would be when I get on google and increase my knowledge in stuff and all....
-1	One of my friends had the flu but just thought it was food poisoning so I told her to go to the doctor 
1	I'm Type 1 diabetic, so I deal with medical issues on a daily basis.  I have been strictly managing my diet, exercise and insulin intake.
-1	When I had a sinus infection and I realized this from past infections which included my upper teeth hurting and a stuffy nose and headache.
-1	When I was a baby I was very sick so I spent my life living in a hospital in an incabater for half my life.
1	When having to choose whether or not to take a drug, I spent some time researching the side effects. I ultimately decided not to take it due to fear that the side effects were worse than my symptoms. I don't know how well that demonstrates knowledge, but it's the only time I've been seriously involved in a medical decision.
-1	NA - cannot think of a specific moment. I have never experienced a moment where I needed to demonstrate knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	Due to my knowledge of the Heimlich maneuver I once saved a child from choking to death on a piece of candy
-1	I habe not had any medical issues in my like as of now   if told I would need to take care of my seld and follow instructions 
-1	Just the fact that I know more about my condition than doctors, due to facebook, so it is a real shame.
-1	I'm not really sure i can't really think of anything that demonstrated i had knowledge of health or medical issues. 
1	Family history of certain illnesses; over 25 years as a pharma sales rep detailing cardio Rx's.  Knowing risks of developing a certain disease based on family history and taking steps to lessen the chances.
-1	I have quite a few health issues, so i have quite a few negative and positive experiences when it comes to doctors and nurses as well as just over all medical expereinces and knowledge of conditions. 
1	"I had a young man come to clean my carpets. He was ill, looked pale , had a fever, and complained of abdominal pain. As he was setting up the equipment outside my home, he collapsed. I called 911 as he was experiencing what is called a ""acute abdomen."" He was diagnosed with acute appendicitis, went by ambulance to the hospital and underwent emergency surgery."
1	My husband went in for knee replacement surgery. The day after his operation, he was told definitively that he was diabetic. I was astonished, as he had never been told that he was at risk-he ate well, was a healthy weight, and went to the doctor twice a year for check ups. I also knew that surgery can impact blood sugar. We discussed it, and he held off on taking insulin until the stress on his body had diminished. He was retested twice, and both time his blood sugar was normal. 
-1	I have not had any experience that demonstrated your knowledge of healthy or medical issued.  I am not sure I understand this question
1	I had to perform the heimleck manouever on one occasion and also perform first aid many times and I'm glad I had some basic knowledge of both of these.
-1	I work in Healthcare.  For 12 years I've worked as a chaplain.  I learn about issues by listening to doctors and nurses talk to patients.
-1	I understand alot of health issue as i do read alot of medical books... and watch procedures... I am not familar with some of these as i dont have any of these conditions... i dont have any relatives at the moment with these issues either... but educating yourself is never a bad thing... 
1	i can't think of a specific situation that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues other than just having a gut instinct when something is wrong
1	I have been interested in holistic healing and worked in the field for half my life as a writer and healer
-1	I use information provided from others, not word and number games that test my stupidity in this survey
-1	My lungs.Was not not really belived by medical staff. They just kept giving me antibiotics until I became resistent and got candida. That I also curied on my own. The lungs I took herbs/vitamins for.
-1	When I was pregnant, I knew something was wrong and had all the signs. My doctor didn't even catch it or even thing of it, but I was correct.
-1	when I had a hemmorride surgery I had no clue as to what would happen after so I roled every question immagable at the doctor
-1	my health is pretty fine i like to walk / jog around the block once a day go to work come home feed the family i like to walk to dog around the park :) 
-1	A1C Levels Over 7 Are On The Way To Diabetes...So It Is Worthwhile To Have A Goal Of Lwss Than 7% A1C ...
-1	I took a health class in high school . It taught us basics procedures for a emergency . I learned cpr and how to find a pulse and how to interact with a person/patient.
-1	when i got diabetes i had to readjust my life, exercise more, eat right, watch my weight and such, it is a very serious disease
1	Every time I researched my symptoms myself and self-medicated during the times in my life when I had no insurance. Also, every time my son has been sick.
-1	I actually  have taken medical terminology classes, so I have knowledge of what some things are and what can be done
1	I have had four sinus surgeries and I minored in biology in college. I have had health issues all my life, so I at least know how to understand them.
1	I have gad a pulmonary embolism twice. I learned how blood thinners will oncrease mu chances of living a healthy life.
1	"The only real medical issue I have had personally since childhood was a bout of Bell's Palsy about 20 years ago.  Partial facial paralysis made me initially fear a stroke but I was reassured that my mental abilities seemed okay.  Successful treatment at a med center followed by some online research taught me that this condition just ""happens"" and it's causes and chance of recurrence are pretty much unknown."
-1	"After my brother was found to have a hole in his heart my mother and I learned alot about the heart functions and alot of the ""lingo"""
-1	I can't really recall anything off the top of my head at this very moment of any experiences that I can demonstrate
-1	i have been a vegan for years and choose to eat healthy and go to the doctor once a year my family is very healthy
-1	My son had fallen down the stairs and hit his head on the cold air return, I immediately saw a difference in his equal Librium which to me indicated a cuncussion I of course took him to see his physician 
1	I found out that I have three different blood clotting disorders after I was diagnosed with blood clots in my lungs twice in six months. At that point, I started to read up on the blood clotting disorders, blood clots and health information in general. 
1	I was diagnosed with high blood pressure and put on medication. not wanting to take medication the rest of my life, I changed my diet and did some exercising and now have normal blood pressure without medication.
-1	I was numb from my right knee down to my foot and the numbness was told to me that after spinal fusion surgery that it should go away but it hasn't. 
1	when i went to college i studied alot of health and science courses so i have pretty good knowledge on the subjects
1	My wife has diabetes and 10 years ago she had a stroke. I take care of her diabetes regimen and I learned an awful lot during her stroke rehab.
1	all i'm wondering rn is why the math questions man. i mean, what, i'm not that smart. dude, just why.
-1	When I knew my leg was more than just arthritis and I kept pushing it.   Turned out to be a bone tumor.
-1	i dont know much about this subject and i do not feel comfortable about it  other than gthat i just dont know much about it
1	these questions are really word problems for math, how did i doo. u need to have the answers show at then end of this test
1	When I had pneumenia a few years ago it required hospitalization and it was thought that the cause was that I was anemic and I had no idea that just a small iron pill could help keep me healthier
1	I don't have extensive knowledge relating to health issues, except for those I myself have dealt with.  I do however, know how to research and questions to determine what course of action would be both most effective and most to my own choosing.
-1	I HAVE SOME BACK ISSUES AND I KNEW THAT I NEEDED TO GET AN MRI TO SEE THE PROBLEM. I AM NOT SURE WHAT YOU MEAN WITH THIS QUESTION.
1	I have hearing loss which is profound and has gotten worse over the 32 years I have worn hearing aids.  I have had hearing tests showing the bone conduction hearing and regular hearing to be quite different.  In researching I have found surgery may be an option.
-1	i always read thru medical books and sites and try to learn as much as i can thru the medical field i want to further eduracate myself 
-1	I am well aware of my side effects for the medications I am taking.  I was experiencing one of those, and went to the doctor.  He claimed that the side effect I was complaining about did not exist for that medication.  I argued with him and told him to check the PDR.  I was correct, and he was not.  He had to apologize.
-1	My husband had gangrene in a foot from chemo. I visited my uncle and knew he had gangrene in his feet by the smell
-1	"I have had such few experiences with my health in regards to issues that it is difficult for me to even remember what one of those might be.  I did have a mammogram that came back ""suspicious"".  I had already been through that before, therefore, I was actually unconcerned about the results but did take a second mammogram which showed all was okay after all."
-1	I have been diagnosed with a slipped disc because of arthritis and when I went to physical therapy the therapists explained the problem to me.  He said the arthritis has pushed my disc to the back of my spine alittle that is why I'm having pain
-1	When my son had a high fever, and at the moment I found out what to do to ease the fever and get him to the doctor quickly. That's it, I learned by reading and studying these symptoms.
-1	Working in drs office and naming medications and usuage to the nurses  who were new and them coming to me for advice as I have a good understanding of how things work 
1	After I had my colectomy in Jan. 2003, I relearned all of the ulcerative colitis terms and jargon my mom taught me because she suffers from the same condition.
-1	My sister has ms and I did allot of research on this subject.  Just to see how it fit with her symptoms and how it is going to progress
-1	my grandson has type 1 diabetes and an insulin pump.  learning how to take his sugar and do the math to put in the right numbers in his pump has been a long, painstaking process that I am doing but always nervous about.  thank god for the equations and calculator.
1	I was diagnosed with a chronic thyroid condition and was able to communicate single-handedly with the various doctors I visited
-1	everyday at my job as veterinary assistant I use my knowledge to dose medications to animals, by weight 
1	I'm not sure if I understand this question, but I regularly speak wtih a doctor about mental health. I have a strong understanding about the side effects of many drugs.
-1	well i do know because i do ask to much about medicine, and my siste do know much about the medice. And also about my desice 
-1	I am 72 years of age I pay attention to what physicians suggest sp I may live a long productive life    Pay attention to family history and advise phsician of same
1	I cannot truly think of any experiences that demonstrate my knowledge of health and medical issues. I am not that knowledgeable.
-1	i was riding on the handle bars and I got worried and starting moving around on the bike's handle bar, being close to the tires my foot got stuck between the spokes. the bruise on my ankle got infected and i needed to see a doctor. I got cured and went back home.. 
-1	Whenever i want to know what i am diagnosed with i tend to do more thorough research and ask questions if needed
-1	i not aware of all the number you were using but i do keep up with my number that apply to me and keep them uncontrolled
-1	The health classes I took in a community college. I studied most of the info in the text books and my final score on my test was a 94
1	I have not had any major health issue. The only time I have been in a hospital is to give birth and everything went smoothly. I did feel like I knew what was going on the entire time.  The nurses and doctor did a great of explaining everything that was happening. 
-1	I had irritable bowel syndrome. I read took my Lanta and ibeprophen for pain. I took a warm bath drinked chamolie tea to sooth my stomach. I also used the hot water bottle for relief
-1	i dont know that much about health or medical issues. I dont have any and i donr know anyone who has anything that needs continual treatment
-1	I have not had a experience that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues. So I can not really answer this question at this moment.
-1	I can fill out  my own forms and I can understand 95% of what I read. When I have questions I have them written down.
-1	I've taken a class in high school where I had to demonstrate my knowledge of heart or medical issues because I had to do cpr on s dummy. 
-1	When my sisters baby had a rash I immediately knew what it was and how to treat it. I even wrote down instructions for her to follow
-1	When my mother was diagnosed with stage three Ovarian Cancer, I knew the difference between the words benign and malignant. 
-1	When my mom had a stroke I thought about the symptoms she was having days before and realized they were in relationship to her having a stroke. 
-1	When a loved one was going through cancer treatment I was somewhat informative about what was happening by listening to her doctor and obsorbing the information
-1	I have not have had any health issue for the pass years of my like. But have seen people gone through lots of health issue because I am Working in the health field 
1	An experience in my life that I demonstrated knowledge of health is when a nurse came to ask me questions when I was in the hospital for a hurt arm.
1	I am a nurse, I have to use my knowledge of health and Medical issues every day when I am at work and home
1	There is no one experience. My family has a lot of health issues, and we've all spent a lot of time in clinics and hospitals.
-1	Well I did have an issue a few years ago when it was discovered  that I had cervical cancer and I needed to undergo laser surgery to remove the precancerous cells that was a very scary situation for me.Its the not knowing if it will reoccur late in life
-1	I do not have much knowledge of general health or medical issues but I read a lot and ask a lot of questions.
-1	everthing under the sun. as attacks various mithma attacks allergy ministroke i am pupy by choice. i can be better.
-1	i haven't had that type of experience. it wasn't a bad experience when they told me i had polycystic ovarian syndrome it was not that concerning they just told me what to do and gave a medication for it
-1	When I had my gastric bypass surgery I had to learn alot abt my new life and loss of weight. How to eat right
-1	I have experienced a few illnesses in my lifetime.  So I have been around many different  types of illnesses.  I have been a patient for gout and acute kidney failure.
-1	I fell playing basketball some years ago and when I tried to stand up I was unable to after trying to stand up a few times and was unable to I knew I broke my knee
1	My doctor felt a little bump in my ready so I was scheduled to get s mammogram. It was very painful and uncomfortable but it turned out to be a benign cyst. I have to keep a eye on it to make sure there is no change 
-1	There have only been one occasion where i have had a general medical knowledge it was when i took a self breast exam.
-1	Where did you fry was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes before I got married and after I had gotten married we've had three kids so I had to learn about nutrition and taking insulin testing my blood sugarlevels 
-1	the aftermath-caught a cold and passed out and found out it was because i was dehydrated-now i know to have more liquids in coldd weather because i can be dehydrated then too
-1	I can't think of a time in my life right now that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues.
-1	I was told that I need to have a healthier eating rabbit. I was on the border line of high cholesterol.
-1	I was at a doctors office and they asked me to describe what my blood pressure meant. I was able to explain to him my understanding of it. 
-1	WALKING PNEUMONIA. NO KNOWLEDGE. NO SIGNS. ONLY EXPERIENCE I HAD WAS APATITE LOST. I NOW KNOW WHAT TO LOOK FOR WHEN IT COMES TO MY HEALTH. THIS COMES IN VARIOUS FORMS. 
-1	When I had my second ceserean section the doctor told me I have a 1. Something chance of having a serious medical problem.
-1	I read all of my prescriptions and the the doctors orders and even the pharmacist explanations of the medicines
-1	When I was having constant chest pains, fear of dying, fatigue, dizziness, etc I was sure it was anxiety after I went to the ER several times. 
1	I was training for a marathon, and I was able to determine that pain I was experiencing at the time went beyond normal training soreness. I went to seek medical advice, and discovered I had partially torn my posterior tibial tendon, which required surgery
-1	An experience in my life that demonstrated my knowledge of health or medical issues is when I had one heart attack
-1	When my side was really bothering me i was in pain that almost felt like menstrual cramps, unsure of the difference I used my prior knowledge about my appendix to lead me to the emergency room
1	My friend's son recently broke out into a rash after having being sick for a week. He had been experiencing common cold symptoms, but had started to slowly get better. When the rash started, his mother thought that it was due to an allergic reaction or a fungus, but I informed her that it was most likely a post-viral rash, which is the body's way of recovering after fighting off a virus.  As a precaution, she took her son to the doctor, who confirmed that it was indeed a post-viral rash.
-1	About five years ago, my appendix ruptured.   I didn't go to the hospital until I was in severe pain.  Once I was in the hospital, I had already diagnosed myself as having either appendicitis or food poisoning -- I was close!
1	Because I have been a model patient, I was asked by the Social Work team to join a group as a navigator.  This voluntary position gave me the opportunity to mentor other patients with health profiles similar to mine.  In this position, I gave personal support and guidance to patients at their request to help manage their conditions.
-1	Whenever I hyperventilate or get mad. Because I have asthma and I can't breath much often and sometimes when I am in that situation and sometimes I lose oxygen.
-1	I had a complete hysterectomy and it was a bad experience last about a year-and-a-half before I had surgery
-1	I can't recall any thing that demonstrate my knowledge of health or medical issues.                 
-1	NO I didn't have a moment when I know enough about the medical issues that was happening I didn't know a dang thing.
-1	I Had a Stroke in 2013 so I now have a better understanding of what good blood pressure is. Outside of that I really don't have a lot of knowledge of other medical issues.
-1	When I had a mass in my ovaries I had to get it removed and that was a serious medical issue for me I had laperscopic surgery it was the best thing I could have done because it was one less thing I had to worry about 
-1	In health class at college, we was required to explain how to prevent different health issue that we had
-1	Taking the recommended dosages of prescribed medications  trying to eat healthier as suggested by the doctor and trying to exercise
-1	When a person i know has has sleep apmea and she look like she wasnt breathin and i tap her and she was fine
-1	I'm aware that a blood test can tell you if you have diseases such as diabetes or high blood pressure.
-1	I have read up on or received training on certain health topics. I also had family members in the medical field. 
-1	I am a homemaker who doesn't  do alot of active activites to heep myself upbeat and energized. I try to do a lot of house chores to get some activies in
-1	I was recently diagnosed with bipolar disorder and had to make sense of all the information & misinformation about the disorder and the experiences of the people living with it. Through online research, I was able to fully understand more about my condition.
-1	My knowledge of health came when I had to have surgery for a tumor.  It was serious enough to warrant surgery however, we caught it in time so therefore the tumor was benigned, and my recovery time was six weeks.
-1	When I was pregnant I thought I had pregnancy diabetes by taking the test and drinking the drink. The at home test I failed, but the in office text I passed.
-1	By knowing the out come of the test that i take, and seeing the doctors when you supose too, and made show you follow up on the test that the doctors order so you can keep well
-1	I noticed my best friend had a crooked spine and I told her and her mother that I think she has scoliosis and I was absolutely right.
